<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poppy Seed</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="poppy-seed" epub:type="chapter">
			<article id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Great Adventure of Max Breuck</h2>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-1" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p>
						<span>A yellow band of light upon the street</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pours from an open door, and makes a wide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pathway of bright gold across a sheet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of calm and liquid moonshine. From inside</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come shouts and streams of laughter, and a snatch</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of song, soon drowned and lost again in mirth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The clip of tankards on a table top,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And stir of booted heels. Against the patch</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of candle-light a shadow falls, its girth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Proclaims the host himself, and master of his shop.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-2" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p>
						<span>This is the tavern of one Hilverdink,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Jan Hilverdink, whose wines are much esteemed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Within his cellar men can have to drink</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The rarest cordials old monks ever schemed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To coax from pulpy grapes, and with nice art</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Improve and spice their virgin juiciness.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Here froths the amber beer of many a brew,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crowning each pewter tankard with as smart</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A cap as ever in his wantonness</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Winter set glittering on top of an old yew.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-3" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Tall candles stand upon the table, where</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are twisted glasses, ruby-sparked with wine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Clarets and ports. Those topaz bumpers were</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Drained from slim, long-necked bottles of the Rhine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The centre of the board is piled with pipes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Slender and clean, the still unbaptized clay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Awaits its burning fate. Behind, the vault</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stretches from dim to dark, a groping way</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bordered by casks and puncheons, whose brass stripes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And bands gleam dully still, beyond the gay tumult.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-4" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>“For good old Master Hilverdink, a toast!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Clamoured a youth with tassels on his boots.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Bring out your oldest brandy for a boast,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From that small barrel in the very roots</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of your deep cellar, man. Why here is Max!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ho! Welcome, Max, you’re scarcely here in time.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We want to drink to old Jan’s luck, and smoke</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His best tobacco for a grand climax.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Here, Jan, a paper, fragrant as crushed thyme,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We’ll have the best to wish you luck, or may we choke!”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-5" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">V</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Max Breuck unclasped his broadcloth cloak, and sat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Well thought of, Franz; here’s luck to Mynheer Jan.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The host set down a jar; then to a vat</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lost in the distance of his cellar, ran.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Max took a pipe as graceful as the stem</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of some long tulip, crammed it full, and drew</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The pungent smoke deep to his grateful lung.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It curled all blue throughout the cave and flew</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Into the silver night. At once there flung</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Into the crowded shop a boy, who cried to them:</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-6" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>“Oh, sirs, is there some learned lawyer here,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Some advocate, or all-wise counsellor?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My master sent me to inquire where</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Such men do mostly be, but every door</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was shut and barred, for late has grown the hour.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I pray you tell me where I may now find</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One versed in law, the matter will not wait.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“I am a lawyer, boy,” said Max, “my mind</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is not locked to my business, though ’tis late.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I shall be glad to serve what way is in my power.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-7" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Then once more, cloaked and ready, he set out,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tripping the footsteps of the eager boy</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Along the dappled cobbles, while the rout</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Within the tavern jeered at his employ.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Through new-burst elm leaves filtered the white moon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who peered and splashed between the twinkling boughs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flooded the open spaces, and took flight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Before tall, serried houses in platoon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Guarded by shadows. Past the Custom House</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They took their hurried way in the Spring-scented night.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-8" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Before a door which fronted a canal</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The boy halted. A dim tree-shaded spot.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The water lapped the stones in musical</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And rhythmic tappings, and a galliot</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Slumbered at anchor with no light aboard.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The boy knocked twice, and steps approached. A flame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Winked through the keyhole, then a key was turned,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And through the open door Max went toward</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Another door, whence sound of voices came.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He entered a large room where candelabra burned.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-9" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">IX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>An aged man in quilted dressing gown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rose up to greet him. “Sir,” said Max, “you sent</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your messenger to seek throughout the town</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A lawyer. I have small accomplishment,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But I am at your service, and my name</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is Max Breuck, Counsellor, at your command.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Mynheer,” replied the aged man, “obliged</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Am I, and count myself much privileged.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I am Cornelius Kurler, and my fame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is better known on distant oceans than on land.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-10" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">X</h3>
					<p>
						<span>My ship has tasted water in strange seas,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And bartered goods at still uncharted isles.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She’s oft coquetted with a tropic breeze,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And sheered off hurricanes with jaunty smiles.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Tush, Kurler,” here broke in the other man,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Enough of poetry, draw the deed and sign.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The old man seemed to wizen at the voice,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“My good friend, Grootver⁠—” he at once began.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“No introductions, let us have some wine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And business, now that you at last have made your choice.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-11" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>A harsh and disagreeable man he proved to be,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This Grootver, with no single kindly thought.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Kurler explained, his old hands nervously</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Twisting his beard. His vessel he had bought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From Grootver. He had thought to soon repay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The ducats borrowed, but an adverse wind</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had so delayed him that his cargo brought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But half its proper price, the very day</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He came to port he stepped ashore to find</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The market glutted and his counted profits naught.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-12" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Little by little Max made out the way</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That Grootver pressed that poor harassed old man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His money he must have, too long delay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had turned the usurer to a ruffian.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“But let me take my ship, with many bales</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of cotton stuffs dyed crimson, green, and blue,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cunningly patterned, made to suit the taste</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of mandarin’s ladies; when my battered sails</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Open for home, such stores will I bring you</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That all your former ventures will be counted waste.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-13" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Such light and foamy silks, like crinkled cream,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And indigo more blue than sun-whipped seas,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Spices and fragrant trees, a massive beam</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of sandalwood, and pungent China teas,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tobacco, coffee!” Grootver only laughed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Max heard it all, and worse than all he heard</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The deed to which the sailor gave his word.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He shivered, ’twas as if the villain gaffed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The old man with a boat-hook; bleeding, spent,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He begged for life nor knew at all the road he went.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-14" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XIV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>For Kurler had a daughter, young and gay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Carefully reared and shielded, rarely seen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But on one black and most unfriendly day</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grootver had caught her as she passed between</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The kitchen and the garden. She had run</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In fear of him, his evil leering eye,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And when he came she, bolted in her room,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Refused to show, though gave no reason why.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The spinning of her future had begun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On quiet nights she heard the whirring of her doom.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-15" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Max mended an old goosequill by the fire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Loathing his work, but seeing no thing to do.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He felt his hands were building up the pyre</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To burn two souls, and seized with vertigo</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He staggered to his chair. Before him lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>White paper still unspotted by a crime.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Now, young man, write,” said Grootver in his ear.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“ ‘If in two years my vessel should yet stay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From Amsterdam, I give Grootver, sometime</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A friend, my daughter for his lawful wife.’ Now swear.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-16" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XVI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>And Kurler swore, a palsied, tottering sound,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And traced his name, a shaking, wandering line.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then dazed he sat there, speechless from his wound.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grootver got up: “Fair voyage, the brigantine!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He shuffled from the room, and left the house.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His footsteps wore to silence down the street.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At last the aged man began to rouse.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With help he once more gained his trembling feet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“My daughter, Mynheer Breuck, is friendless now.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Will you watch over her? I ask a solemn vow.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-17" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XVII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Max laid his hand upon the old man’s arm,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Before God, sir, I vow, when you are gone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So to protect your daughter from all harm</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As one man may.” Thus sorrowful, forlorn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The situation to Max Breuck appeared,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He gave his promise almost without thought,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor looked to see a difficulty. “Bred</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gently to watch a mother left alone;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bound by a dying father’s wish, who feared</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The world’s accustomed harshness when he should be dead;</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-18" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XVIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Such was my case from youth, Mynheer Kurler.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Last Winter she died also, and my days</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are passed in work, lest I should grieve for her,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And undo habits used to earn her praise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My leisure I will gladly give to see</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your household and your daughter prosperous.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sailor said his thanks, but turned away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He could not brook that his humility,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So little wonted, and so tremulous,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Should first before a stranger make such great display.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-19" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XIX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>“Come here to-morrow as the bells ring noon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I sail at the full sea, my daughter then</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I will make known to you. ’Twill be a boon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If after I have bid good-by, and when</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her eyeballs scorch with watching me depart,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You bring her home again. She lives with one</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Old serving-woman, who has brought her up.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But that is no friend for so free a heart.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No head to match her questions. It is done.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I must sail away to come and brim her cup.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-20" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>My ship’s the fastest that owns Amsterdam</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As home, so not a letter can you send.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I shall be back, before to where I am</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Another ship could reach. Now your stipend⁠—”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Quickly Breuck interposed. “When you once more</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tread on the stones which pave our streets.⁠—Good night!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To-morrow I will be, at stroke of noon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At the great wharf.” Then hurrying, in spite</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of cake and wine the old man pressed upon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Him ere he went, he took his leave and shut the door.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-21" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>’Twas noon in Amsterdam, the day was clear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And sunshine tipped the pointed roofs with gold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The brown canals ran liquid bronze, for here</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sun sank deep into the waters cold.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And every clock and belfry in the town</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hammered, and struck, and rang. Such peals of bells,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To shake the sunny morning into life,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And to proclaim the middle, and the crown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of this most sparkling daytime! The crowd swells,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Laughing and pushing toward the quays in friendly strife.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-22" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The “Horn of Fortune” sails away to-day.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At highest tide she lets her anchor go,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And starts for China. Saucy popinjay!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Giddy in freshest paint she curtseys low,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And beckons to her boats to let her start.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blue is the ocean, with a flashing breeze.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The shining waves are quick to take her part.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They push and spatter her. Her sails are loose,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her tackles hanging, waiting men to seize</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And haul them taut, with chanty-singing, as they choose.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-23" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>At the great wharf’s edge Mynheer Kurler stands,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And by his side, his daughter, young Christine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Max Breuck is there, his hat held in his hands,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bowing before them both. The brigantine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bounces impatient at the long delay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Curvets and jumps, a cable’s length from shore.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A heavy galliot unloads on the walls</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Round, yellow cheeses, like gold cannon balls</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stacked on the stones in pyramids. Once more</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Kurler has kissed Christine, and now he is away.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-24" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXIV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Christine stood rigid like a frozen stone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her hands wrung pale in effort at control.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Max moved aside and let her be alone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For grief exacts each penny of its toll.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The dancing boat tossed on the glinting sea.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A sun-path swallowed it in flaming light,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then, shrunk a cockleshell, it came again</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon the other side. Now on the lee</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It took the “Horn of Fortune”. Straining sight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Could see it hauled aboard, men pulling on the crane.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-25" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Then up above the eager brigantine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Along her slender masts, the sails took flight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Were sheeted home, and ropes were coiled. The shine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the wet anchor, when its heavy weight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rose splashing to the deck. These things they saw,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Christine and Max, upon the crowded quay.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They saw the sails grow white, then blue in shade,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The ship had turned, caught in a windy flaw</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She glided imperceptibly away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Drew farther off and in the bright sky seemed to fade.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-26" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXVI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Home, through the emptying streets, Max took Christine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who would have hid her sorrow from his gaze.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Before the iron gateway, clasped between</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Each garden wall, he stopped. She, in amaze,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Asked, “Do you enter not then, Mynheer Breuck?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My father told me of your courtesy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Since I am now your charge, ’tis meet for me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To show such hospitality as maiden may,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Without disdaining rules must not be broke.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Katrina will have coffee, and she bakes today.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-27" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXVII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>She straight unhasped the tall, beflowered gate.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Curled into tendrils, twisted into cones</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of leaves and roses, iron infoliate,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It guards the pleasance, and its stiffened bones</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are budded with much peering at the rows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And beds, and arbours, which it keeps inside.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Max started at the beauty, at the glare</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of tints. At either end was set a wide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Path strewn with fine, red gravel, and such shows</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of tulips in their splendour flaunted everywhere!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-28" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXVIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>From side to side, midway each path, there ran</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A longer one which cut the space in two.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And, like a tunnel some magician</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Has wrought in twinkling green, an alley grew,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pleached thick and walled with apple trees; their flowers</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Incensed the garden, and when Autumn came</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The plump and heavy apples crowding stood</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And tapped against the arbour. Then the dame</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Katrina shook them down, in pelting showers</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They plunged to earth, and died transformed to sugared food.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-29" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXIX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Against the high, encircling walls were grapes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nailed close to feel the baking of the sun</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From glowing bricks. Their microscopic shapes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Half hidden by serrated leaves. And one</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Old cherry tossed its branches near the door.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bordered along the wall, in beds between,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flickering, streaming, nodding in the air,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The pride of all the garden, there were more</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tulips than Max had ever dreamed or seen.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They jostled, mobbed, and danced. Max stood at helpless stare.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-30" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>“Within the arbour, Mynheer Breuck, I’ll bring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Coffee and cakes, a pipe, and Father’s best</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tobacco, brought from countries harbouring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dawn’s earliest footstep. Wait.” With girlish zest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To please her guest she flew. A moment more</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She came again, with her old nurse behind.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then, sitting on the bench and knitting fast,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She talked as someone with a noble store</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of hidden fancies, blown upon the wind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Eager to flutter forth and leave their silent past.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-31" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The little apple leaves above their heads</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Let fall a quivering sunshine. Quiet, cool,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In blossomed boughs they sat. Beyond, the beds</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of tulips blazed, a proper vestibule</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And antechamber to the rainbow. Dyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of prismed richness: Carmine. Madder. Blues</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tinging dark browns to purple. Silvers flushed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To amethyst and tinct with gold. Round eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of scarlet, spotting tender saffron hues.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Violets sunk to blacks, and reds in orange crushed.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-32" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Of every pattern and in every shade.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nacreous, iridescent, mottled, checked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Some purest sulphur-yellow, others made</span>
						<br/>
						<span>An ivory-white with disks of copper flecked.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sprinkled and striped, tasselled, or keenest edged.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Striated, powdered, freckled, long or short.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They bloomed, and seemed strange wonder-moths new-fledged,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Born of the spectrum wedded to a flame.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The shade within the arbour made a port</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To o’ertaxed eyes, its still, green twilight rest became.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-33" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Her knitting-needles clicked and Christine talked,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This child matured to woman unaware,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The first time left alone. Now dreams once balked</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Found utterance. Max thought her very fair.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Beneath her cap her ornaments shone gold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And purest gold they were. Kurler was rich</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And heedful. Her old maiden aunt had died</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whose darling care she was. Now, growing bold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She asked, had Max a sister? Dropped a stitch</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At her own candour. Then she paused and softly sighed.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-34" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXIV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Two years was long! She loved her father well,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But fears she had not. He had always been</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Just sailed or sailing. And she must not dwell</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On sad thoughts, he had told her so, and seen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her smile at parting. But she sighed once more.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Two years was long; ’twas not one hour yet!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mynheer Grootver she would not see at all.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yes, yes, she knew, but ere the date so set,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The “Horn of Fortune” would be at the wall.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When Max had bid farewell, she watched him from the door.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-35" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The next day, and the next, Max went to ask</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The health of Jufvrouw Kurler, and the news:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Another tulip blown, or the great task</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of gathering petals which the high wind strews;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The polishing of floors, the pictured tiles</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Well scrubbed, and oaken chairs most deftly oiled.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Such things were Christine’s world, and his was she</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Winter drew near, his sun was in her smiles.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Another Spring, and at his law he toiled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unspoken hope counselled a wise efficiency.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-36" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXVI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Max Breuck was honour’s soul, he knew himself</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The guardian of this girl; no more, no less.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As one in charge of guineas on a shelf</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Loose in a china teapot, may confess</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His need, but may not borrow till his friend</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Comes back to give. So Max, in honour, said</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No word of love or marriage; but the days</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He clipped off on his almanac. The end</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Must come! The second year, with feet of lead,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lagged slowly by till Spring had plumped the willow sprays.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-37" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXVII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Two years had made Christine a woman grown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With dignity and gently certain pride.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But all her childhood fancies had not flown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her thoughts in lovely dreamings seemed to glide.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Max was her trusted friend, did she confess</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A closer happiness? Max could not tell.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Two years were over and his life he found</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sphered and complete. In restless eagerness</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He waited for the “Horn of Fortune”. Well</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had he his promise kept, abating not one pound.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-38" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXVIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Spring slipped away to Summer. Still no glass</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sighted the brigantine. Then Grootver came</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Demanding Jufvrouw Kurler. His trespass</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was justified, for he had won the game.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Christine begged time, more time! Midsummer went,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Grootver waxed impatient. Still the ship</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tarried. Christine, betrayed and weary, sank</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To dreadful terrors. One day, crazed, she sent</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Max. “Come quickly,” said her note, “I skip</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The worst distress until we meet. The world is blank.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-39" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XXXIX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Through the long sunshine of late afternoon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Max went to her. In the pleached alley, lost</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In bitter reverie, he found her soon.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And sitting down beside her, at the cost</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of all his secret, “Dear,” said he, “what thing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So suddenly has happened?” Then, in tears,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She told that Grootver, on the following morn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Would come to marry her, and shuddering:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“I will die rather, death has lesser fears.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Max felt the shackles drop from the oath which he had sworn.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-40" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XL</h3>
					<p>
						<span>“My Dearest One, the hid joy of my heart!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I love you, oh! you must indeed have known.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In strictest honour I have played my part;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But all this misery has overthrown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My scruples. If you love me, marry me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Before the sun has dipped behind those trees.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You cannot be wed twice, and Grootver, foiled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Can eat his anger. My care it shall be</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To pay your father’s debt, by such degrees</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As I can compass, and for years I’ve greatly toiled.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-41" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>This is not haste, Christine, for long I’ve known</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My love, and silence forced upon my lips.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I worship you with all the strength I’ve shown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In keeping faith.” With pleading finger tips</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He touched her arm. “Christine! Beloved! Think.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Let us not tempt the future. Dearest, speak,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I love you. Do my words fall too swift now?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They’ve been in leash so long upon the brink.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She sat quite still, her body loose and weak.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then into him she melted, all her soul at flow.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-42" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>And they were married ere the westering sun</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had disappeared behind the garden trees.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The evening poured on them its benison,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And flower-scents, that only night-time frees,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rose up around them from the beamy ground,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Silvered and shadowed by a tranquil moon.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Within the arbour, long they lay embraced,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In such enraptured sweetness as they found</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Close-partnered each to each, and thinking soon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To be enwoven, long ere night to morning faced.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-43" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>At last Max spoke, “Dear Heart, this night is ours,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To watch it pale, together, into dawn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pressing our souls apart like opening flowers</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Until our lives, through quivering bodies drawn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are mingled and confounded. Then, far spent,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our eyes will close to undisturbed rest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For that desired thing I leave you now.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To pinnacle this day’s accomplishment,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By telling Grootver that a bootless quest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is his, and that his schemes have met a knock-down blow.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-44" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLIV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>But Christine clung to him with sobbing cries,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pleading for love’s sake that he leave her not.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And wound her arms about his knees and thighs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As he stood over her. With dread, begot</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Grootver’s name, and silence, and the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She shook and trembled. Words in moaning plaint</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wooed him to stay. She feared, she knew not why,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet greatly feared. She seemed some anguished saint</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Martyred by visions. Max Breuck soothed her fright</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With wisdom, then stepped out under the cooling sky.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-45" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>But at the gate once more she held him close</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And quenched her heart again upon his lips.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“My Sweetheart, why this terror? I propose</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But to be gone one hour! Evening slips</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Away, this errand must be done.” “Max! Max!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>First goes my father, if I lose you now!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She grasped him as in panic lest she drown.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Softly he laughed, “One hour through the town</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By moonlight! That’s no place for foul attacks.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dearest, be comforted, and clear that troubled brow.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-46" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLVI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>One hour, Dear, and then, no more alone.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We front another day as man and wife.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I shall be back almost before I’m gone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And midnight shall anoint and crown our life.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then through the gate he passed. Along the street</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She watched his buttons gleaming in the moon.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He stopped to wave and turned the garden wall.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Straight she sank down upon a mossy seat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her senses, mist-encircled by a swoon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Swayed to unconsciousness beneath its wreathing pall.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-47" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLVII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Briskly Max walked beside the still canal.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His step was firm with purpose. Not a jot</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He feared this meeting, nor the rancorous gall</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grootver would spit on him who marred his plot.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He dreaded no man, since he could protect</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Christine. His wife! He stopped and laughed aloud.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His starved life had not fitted him for joy.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It strained him to the utmost to reject</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Even this hour with her. His heart beat loud.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Damn Grootver, who can force my time to this employ!”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-48" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLVIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>He laughed again. What boyish uncontrol</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To be so racked. Then felt his ticking watch.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In half an hour Grootver would know the whole.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And he would be returned, lifting the latch</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of his own gate, eager to take Christine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And crush her to his lips. How bear delay?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He broke into a run. In front, a line</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of candle-light banded the cobbled street.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hilverdink’s tavern! Not for many a day</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had he been there to take his old, accustomed seat.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-49" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XLIX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>“Why, Max! Stop, Max!” And out they came pell-mell,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His old companions. “Max, where have you been?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not drink with us? Indeed you serve us well!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How many months is it since we have seen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You here? Jan, Jan, you slow, old doddering goat!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Here’s Mynheer Breuck come back again at last,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stir your old bones to welcome him. Fie, Max.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Business! And after hours! Fill your throat;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Here’s beer or brandy. Now, boys, hold him fast.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Put down your cane, dear man. What really vicious whacks!”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-50" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">L</h3>
					<p>
						<span>They forced him to a seat, and held him there,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Despite his anger, while the hideous joke</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was tossed from hand to hand. Franz poured with care</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A brimming glass of whiskey. “Here, we’ve broke</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Into a virgin barrel for you, drink!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tut! Tut! Just hear him! Married! Who, and when?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Married, and out on business. Clever Spark!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which lie’s the likeliest? Come, Max, do think.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Swollen with fury, struggling with these men,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Max cursed hilarity which must needs have a mark.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-51" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Forcing himself to steadiness, he tried</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To quell the uproar, told them what he dared</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of his own life and circumstance. Implied</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Most urgent matters, time could ill be spared.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In jesting mood his comrades heard his tale,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And scoffed at it. He felt his anger more</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Goaded and bursting;⁠—“Cowards! Is no one loth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To mock at duty⁠—” Here they called for ale,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And forced a pipe upon him. With an oath</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He shivered it to fragments on the earthen floor.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-52" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Sobered a little by his violence,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And by the host who begged them to be still,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor injure his good name, “Max, no offence,”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They blurted, “you may leave now if you will.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“One moment, Max,” said Franz. “We’ve gone too far.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I ask your pardon for our foolish joke.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It started in a wager ere you came.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The talk somehow had fall’n on drugs, a jar</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I brought from China, herbs the natives smoke,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was with me, and I thought merely to play a game.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-53" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Its properties are to induce a sleep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fraught with adventure, and the flight of time</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is inconceivable in swiftness. Deep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sunken in slumber, imageries sublime</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flatter the senses, or some fearful dream</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Holds them enmeshed. Years pass which on the clock</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are but so many seconds. We agreed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That the next man who came should prove the scheme;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And you were he. Jan handed you the crock.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Two whiffs! And then the pipe was broke, and you were freed.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-54" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LIV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>“It is a lie, a damned, infernal lie!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Max Breuck was maddened now. “Another jest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of your befuddled wits. I know not why</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I am to be your butt. At my request</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You’ll choose among you one who’ll answer for</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your most unseasonable mirth. Good-night</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And good-by⁠—gentlemen. You’ll hear from me.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But Franz had caught him at the very door,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“It is no lie, Max Breuck, and for your plight</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I am to blame. Come back, and we’ll talk quietly.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-55" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>You have no business, that is why we laughed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Since you had none a few minutes ago.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As to your wedding, naturally we chaffed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Knowing the length of time it takes to do</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A simple thing like that in this slow world.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Indeed, Max, ’twas a dream. Forgive me then.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I’ll burn the drug if you prefer.” But Breuck</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Muttered and stared⁠—“A lie.” And then he hurled,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Distraught, this word at Franz: “Prove it. And when</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It’s proven, I’ll believe. That thing shall be your work.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-56" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LVI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>I’ll give you just one week to make your case.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On August thirty-first, eighteen-fourteen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I shall require your proof.” With wondering face</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Franz cried, “A week to August, and fourteen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The year! You’re mad, ’tis April now.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>April, and eighteen-twelve.” Max staggered, caught</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A chair⁠—“April two years ago! Indeed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or you, or I, are mad. I know not how</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Either could blunder so.” Hilverdink brought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“The Amsterdam Gazette”, and Max was forced to read.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-57" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LVII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>“Eighteen hundred and twelve,” in largest print;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And next to it, “April the twenty-first.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The letters smeared and jumbled, but by dint</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of straining every nerve to meet the worst,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He read it, and into his pounding brain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tumbled a horror. Like a roaring sea</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Foreboding shipwreck, came the message plain:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“This is two years ago! What of Christine?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He fled the cellar, in his agony</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Running to outstrip Fate, and save his holy shrine.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-58" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LVIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The darkened buildings echoed to his feet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Clap-clapping on the pavement as he ran.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Across moon-misted squares clamoured his fleet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And terror-winged steps. His heart began</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To labour at the speed. And still no sign,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No flutter of a leaf against the sky.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And this should be the garden wall, and round</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The corner, the old gate. No even line</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was this! No wall! And then a fearful cry</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shattered the stillness. Two stiff houses filled the ground.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-59" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LIX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Shoulder to shoulder, like dragoons in line,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They stood, and Max knew them to be the ones</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To right and left of Kurler’s garden. Spine</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rigid next frozen spine. No mellow tones</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of ancient gilded iron, undulate,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Expanding in wide circles and broad curves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The twisted iron of the garden gate,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was there. The houses touched and left no space</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Between. With glassy eyes and shaking nerves</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Max gazed. Then mad with fear, fled still, and left that place.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-60" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Stumbling and panting, on he ran, and on.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His slobbering lips could only cry, “Christine!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My Dearest Love! My Wife! Where are you gone?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What future is our past? What saturnine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sardonic devil’s jest has bid us live</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Two years together in a puff of smoke?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It was no dream, I swear it! In some star,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or still imprisoned in Time’s egg, you give</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Me love. I feel it. Dearest Dear, this stroke</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shall never part us, I will reach to where you are.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-61" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LXI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>His burning eyeballs stared into the dark.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The moon had long been set. And still he cried:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Christine! My Love! Christine!” A sudden spark</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pricked through the gloom, and shortly Max espied</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With his uncertain vision, so within</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Distracted he could scarcely trust its truth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A latticed window where a crimson gleam</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Spangled the blackness, and hung from a pin,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>An iron crane, were three gilt balls. His youth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had taught their meaning, now they closed upon his dream.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-62" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LXII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Softly he knocked against the casement, wide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It flew, and a cracked voice his business there</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Demanded. The door opened, and inside</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Max stepped. He saw a candle held in air</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Above the head of a gray-bearded Jew.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Simeon Isaacs, Mynheer, can I serve</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You?” “Yes, I think you can. Do you keep arms?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I want a pistol.” Quick the old man grew</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Livid. “Mynheer, a pistol! Let me swerve</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You from your purpose. Life brings often false alarms⁠—”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-63" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LXIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>“Peace, good old Isaacs, why should you suppose</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My purpose deadly. In good truth I’ve been</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blest above others. You have many rows</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of pistols it would seem. Here, this shagreen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Case holds one that I fancy. Silvered mounts</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are to my taste. These letters ‘C. D. L.’</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Its former owner? Dead, you say. Poor Ghost!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>’Twill serve my turn though⁠—” Hastily he counts</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The florins down upon the table. “Well,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Good-night, and wish me luck for your to-morrow’s toast.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-64" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LXIV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Into the night again he hurried, now</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pale and in haste; and far beyond the town</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He set his goal. And then he wondered how</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Poor C. D. L. had come to die. “It’s grown</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Handy in killing, maybe, this I’ve bought,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And will work punctually.” His sorrow fell</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon his senses, shutting out all else.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Again he wept, and called, and blindly fought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The heavy miles away. “Christine. I’m well.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I’m coming. My Own Wife!” He lurched with failing pulse.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-great-adventure-of-max-breuck-65" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">LXV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Along the dyke the keen air blew in gusts,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And grasses bent and wailed before the wind.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Zuider Zee, which croons all night and thrusts</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Long stealthy fingers up some way to find</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And crumble down the stones, moaned baffled. Here</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The wide-armed windmills looked like gallows-trees.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No lights were burning in the distant thorps.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Max laid aside his coat. His mind, half-clear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Babbled “Christine!” A shot split through the breeze.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The cold stars winked and glittered at his chilling corpse.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="sancta-maria-succurre-miseris" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Sancta Maria, Succurre Miseris</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Dear Virgin Mary, far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look down from Heaven while I pray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Open your golden casement high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lean way out beyond the sky.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am so little, it may be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A task for you to harken me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O Lady Mary, I have bought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A candle, as the good priest taught.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I only had one penny, so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old Goody Jenkins let it go.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a little bent, you see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Oh, be merciful to me!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I have not anything to give,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet I so long for him to live.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A year ago he sailed away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And not a word unto today.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve strained my eyes from the sea-wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But never does he come at all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Other ships have entered port</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their voyages finished, long or short,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And other sailors have received</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their welcomes, while I sat and grieved.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My heart is bursting for his hail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Virgin, let me spy his sail.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>Hull down on the edge of a sun-soaked sea</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>Sparkle the bellying sails for me.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>Taut to the push of a rousing wind</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>Shaking the sea till it foams behind,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>The tightened rigging is shrill with the song:</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>“We are back again who were gone so long.”</em>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One afternoon I bumped my head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sat on a post and wished I were dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like father and mother, for no one cared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whither I went or how I fared.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man’s voice said, “My little lad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here’s a bit of a toy to make you glad.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then I opened my eyes and saw him plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With his sleeves rolled up, and the dark blue stain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of tattooed skin, where a flock of quail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flew up to his shoulder and met the tail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a dragon curled, all pink and green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which sprawled on his back, when it was seen.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He held out his hand and gave to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The most marvellous top which could ever be.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It had ivory eyes, and jet-black rings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a red stone carved into little wings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All joined by a twisted golden line,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And set in the brown wood, even and fine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Forgive me, Lady, I have not brought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My treasure to you as I ought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he said to keep it for his sake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And comfort myself with it, and take</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joy in its spinning, and so I do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It couldn’t mean quite the same to you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Every day I met him there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the fisher-nets dry in the sunny air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He told me stories of courts and kings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of storms at sea, of lots of things.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The top he said was a sort of sign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That something in the big world was mine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>Blue and white on a sun-shot ocean.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>Against the horizon a glint in motion.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>Full in the grasp of a shoving wind,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>Trailing her bubbles of foam behind,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>Singing and shouting to port she races,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>A flying harp, with her sheets and braces.</em>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O Queen of Heaven, give me heed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am in very utmost need.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He loved me, he was all I had,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when he came it made the sad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thoughts disappear. This very day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Send his ship home to me I pray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I’ll be a priest, if you want it so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll work till I have enough to go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And study Latin to say the prayers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the rosary our old priest wears.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wished to be a sailor too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I will give myself to you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I’ll never even spin my top,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But put it away in a box. I’ll stop</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whistling the sailor-songs he taught.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll save my pennies till I have bought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A silver heart in the market square,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve seen some beautiful, white ones there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I’ll give up all I want to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And do whatever you tell me to.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heavenly Lady, take away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the games I like to play,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take my life to fill the score,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only bring him back once more!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>The poplars shiver and turn their leaves,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>And the wind through the belfry moans and grieves.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>The gray dust whirls in the market square,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>And the silver hearts are covered with care</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>By thick tarpaulins. Once again</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>The bay is black under heavy rain.</em>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Queen of Heaven has shut her door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little boy weeps and prays no more.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="after-hearing-a-waltz-by-bartok" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">After Hearing a Waltz by Bartók</h2>
				<p>
					<span>But why did I kill him? Why? Why?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the small, gilded room, near the stair?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My ears rack and throb with his cry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And his eyes goggle under his hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As my fingers sink into the fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>White skin of his throat. It was I!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I killed him! My God! Don’t you hear?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I shook him until his red tongue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hung flapping out through the black, queer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Swollen lines of his lips. And I clung</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With my nails drawing blood, while I flung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loose, heavy body in fear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fear lest he should still not be dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I was drunk with the lust of his life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blood-drops oozed slow from his head</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And dabbled a chair. And our strife</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lasted one reeling second, his knife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay and winked in the lights overhead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the waltz from the ballroom I heard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When I called him a low, sneaking cur.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the wail of the violins stirred</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My brute anger with visions of her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As I throttled his windpipe, the purr</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his breath with the waltz became blurred.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I have ridden ten miles through the dark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With that music, an infernal din,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pounding rhythmic inside me. Just Hark!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One! Two! Three! And my fingers sink in</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To his flesh when the violins, thin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And straining with passion, grow stark.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One! Two! Three! Oh, the horror of sound!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While she danced I was crushing his throat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had tasted the joy of her, wound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Round her body, and I heard him gloat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the favour. That instant I smote.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One! Two! Three! How the dancers swirl round!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He is here in the room, in my arm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His limp body hangs on the spin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the waltz we are dancing, a swarm</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of blood-drops is hemming us in!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Round and round! One! Two! Three! And his sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is red like his tongue lolling warm.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One! Two! Three! And the drums are his knell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He is heavy, his feet beat the floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I drag him about in the swell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the waltz. With a menacing roar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The trumpets crash in through the door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One! Two! Three! clangs his funeral bell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One! Two! Three! In the chaos of space</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rolls the earth to the hideous glee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of death! And so cramped is this place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I stifle and pant. One! Two! Three!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Round and round! God! ’Tis he throttles me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He has covered my mouth with his face!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And his blood has dripped into my heart!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my heart beats and labours. One! Two!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three! His dead limbs have coiled every part</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of my body in tentacles. Through</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My ears the waltz jangles. Like glue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His dead body holds me athwart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One! Two! Three! Give me air! Oh! My God!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One! Two! Three! I am drowning in slime!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One! Two! Three! And his corpse, like a clod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beats me into a jelly! The chime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One! Two! Three! And his dead legs keep time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Air! Give me air! Air! My God!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="clear,-with-light-variable-winds" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Clear, with Light, Variable Winds</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The fountain bent and straightened itself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the night wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blowing like a flower.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It gleamed and glittered,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A tall white lily,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under the eye of the golden moon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From a stone seat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath a blossoming lime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man watched it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the spray pattered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the dim grass at his feet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The fountain tossed its water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up and up, like silver marbles.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is that an arm he sees?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for one moment</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Does he catch the moving curve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a thigh?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fountain gurgled and splashed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the man’s face was wet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Is it singing that he hears?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A song of playing at ball?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The moonlight shines on the straight column of water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And through it he sees a woman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tossing the water-balls.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her breasts point outwards,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the nipples are like buds of peonies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her flanks ripple as she plays,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the water is not more undulating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than the lines of her body.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Come,” she sings, “Poet!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Am I not more worth than your day ladies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Covered with awkward stuffs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unreal, unbeautiful?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What do you fear in taking me?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is not the night for poets?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am your dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Recurrent as water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gemmed with the moon!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She steps to the edge of the pool</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the water runs, rustling, down her sides.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She stretches out her arms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the fountain streams behind her</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like an opened veil.</span>
					<br/>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>In the morning the gardeners came to their work.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“There is something in the fountain,” said one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They shuddered as they laid their dead master</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the grass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I will close his eyes,” said the head gardener,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“It is uncanny to see a dead man staring at the sun.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-basket" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Basket</h2>
				<section id="the-basket-1" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The inkstand is full of ink, and the paper lies white and unspotted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>in the round of light thrown by a candle. Puffs of darkness sweep into</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the corners, and keep rolling through the room behind his chair. The air</span>
						<br/>
						<span>is silver and pearl, for the night is liquid with moonlight.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>See how the roof glitters, like ice!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Over there, a slice of yellow cuts into the silver-blue, and beside it stand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>two geraniums, purple because the light is silver-blue, to-night.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>See! She is coming, the young woman with the bright hair.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She swings a basket as she walks, which she places on the sill,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>between the geranium stalks. He laughs, and crumples his paper</span>
						<br/>
						<span>as he leans forward to look. “The Basket Filled with Moonlight”,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>what a title for a book!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The bellying clouds swing over the housetops.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>He has forgotten the woman in the room with the geraniums. He is beating</span>
						<br/>
						<span>his brain, and in his eardrums hammers his heavy pulse. She sits</span>
						<br/>
						<span>on the window-sill, with the basket in her lap. And tap! She cracks a nut.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And tap! Another. Tap! Tap! Tap! The shells ricochet upon the roof,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and get into the gutters, and bounce over the edge and disappear.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“It is very queer,” thinks Peter, “the basket was empty, I’m sure.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How could nuts appear from the atmosphere?”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The silver-blue moonlight makes the geraniums purple, and the roof glitters</span>
						<br/>
						<span>like ice.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-basket-2" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Five o’clock. The geraniums are very gay in their crimson array.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The bellying clouds swing over the housetops, and over the roofs goes Peter</span>
						<br/>
						<span>to pay his morning’s work with a holiday.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Annette, it is I. Have you finished? Can I come?”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Peter jumps through the window.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Dear, are you alone?”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Look, Peter, the dome of the tabernacle is done. This gold thread</span>
						<br/>
						<span>is so very high, I am glad it is morning, a starry sky would have</span>
						<br/>
						<span>seen me bankrupt. Sit down, now tell me, is your story going well?”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The golden dome glittered in the orange of the setting sun. On the walls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>at intervals, hung altar-cloths and chasubles, and copes, and stoles,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and coffin palls. All stiff with rich embroidery, and stitched with</span>
						<br/>
						<span>so much artistry, they seemed like spun and woven gems, or flower-buds</span>
						<br/>
						<span>new-opened on their stems.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Annette looked at the geraniums, very red against the blue sky.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“No matter how I try, I cannot find any thread of such a red.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My bleeding hearts drip stuff muddy in comparison. Heigh-ho! See my little</span>
						<br/>
						<span>pecking dove? I’m in love with my own temple. Only that halo’s wrong.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The colour’s too strong, or not strong enough. I don’t know. My eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>are tired. Oh, Peter, don’t be so rough; it is valuable. I won’t do</span>
						<br/>
						<span>any more. I promise. You tyrannise, Dear, that’s enough. Now sit down</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and amuse me while I rest.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The shadows of the geraniums creep over the floor, and begin to climb</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the opposite wall.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Peter watches her, fluid with fatigue, floating, and drifting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and undulant in the orange glow. His senses flow towards her,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>where she lies supine and dreaming. Seeming drowned in a golden halo.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The pungent smell of the geraniums is hard to bear.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>He pushes against her knees, and brushes his lips across her languid hands.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His lips are hot and speechless. He woos her, quivering, and the room</span>
						<br/>
						<span>is filled with shadows, for the sun has set. But she only understands</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the ways of a needle through delicate stuffs, and the shock of one colour</span>
						<br/>
						<span>on another. She does not see that this is the same, and querulously murmurs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>his name.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Peter, I don’t want it. I am tired.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And he, the undesired, burns and is consumed.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>There is a crescent moon on the rim of the sky.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-basket-3" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p>
						<span>“Go home, now, Peter. To-night is full moon. I must be alone.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“How soon the moon is full again! Annette, let me stay. Indeed, Dear Love,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I shall not go away. My God, but you keep me starved! You write</span>
						<br/>
						<span>‘No Entrance Here’, over all the doors. Is it not strange, my Dear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>that loving, yet you deny me entrance everywhere. Would marriage</span>
						<br/>
						<span>strike you blind, or, hating bonds as you do, why should I be denied</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the rights of loving if I leave you free? You want the whole of me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>you pick my brains to rest you, but you give me not one heart-beat.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Oh, forgive me, Sweet! I suffer in my loving, and you know it. I cannot</span>
						<br/>
						<span>feed my life on being a poet. Let me stay.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“As you please, poor Peter, but it will hurt me if you do. It will</span>
						<br/>
						<span>crush your heart and squeeze the love out.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>He answered gruffly, “I know what I’m about.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Only remember one thing from to-night. My work is taxing and I must</span>
						<br/>
						<span>have sight! I <i>must</i>!”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The clear moon looks in between the geraniums. On the wall,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the shadow of the man is divided from the shadow of the woman</span>
						<br/>
						<span>by a silver thread.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>They are eyes, hundreds of eyes, round like marbles! Unwinking, for there</span>
						<br/>
						<span>are no lids. Blue, black, gray, and hazel, and the irises are cased</span>
						<br/>
						<span>in the whites, and they glitter and spark under the moon. The basket</span>
						<br/>
						<span>is heaped with human eyes. She cracks off the whites and throws them away.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They ricochet upon the roof, and get into the gutters, and bounce</span>
						<br/>
						<span>over the edge and disappear. But she is here, quietly sitting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>on the window-sill, eating human eyes.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The silver-blue moonlight makes the geraniums purple, and the roof shines</span>
						<br/>
						<span>like ice.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-basket-4" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>How hot the sheets are! His skin is tormented with pricks,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and over him sticks, and never moves, an eye. It lights the sky with blood,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and drips blood. And the drops sizzle on his bare skin, and he smells them</span>
						<br/>
						<span>burning in, and branding his body with the name “Annette”.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The blood-red sky is outside his window now. Is it blood or fire?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Merciful God! Fire! And his heart wrenches and pounds “Annette!”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The lead of the roof is scorching, he ricochets, gets to the edge,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>bounces over and disappears.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The bellying clouds are red as they swing over the housetops.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-basket-5" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">V</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The air is of silver and pearl, for the night is liquid with moonlight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How the ruin glistens, like a palace of ice! Only two black holes swallow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the brilliance of the moon. Deflowered windows, sockets without sight.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A man stands before the house. He sees the silver-blue moonlight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and set in it, over his head, staring and flickering, eyes of geranium red.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Annette!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="in-a-castle" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">In a Castle</h2>
				<section id="in-a-castle-xx" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Over the yawning chimney hangs the fog. Drip⁠—hiss⁠—drip⁠—hiss⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>fall the raindrops on the oaken log which burns, and steams,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and smokes the ceiling beams. Drip⁠—hiss⁠—the rain never stops.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The wide, state bed shivers beneath its velvet coverlet. Above, dim,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>in the smoke, a tarnished coronet gleams dully. Overhead hammers and chinks</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the rain. Fearfully wails the wind down distant corridors, and there comes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the swish and sigh of rushes lifted off the floors. The arras blows sidewise</span>
						<br/>
						<span>out from the wall, and then falls back again.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>It is my lady’s key, confided with much nice cunning, whisperingly.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He enters on a sob of wind, which gutters the candles almost to swaling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The fire flutters and drops. Drip⁠—hiss⁠—the rain never stops.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He shuts the door. The rushes fall again to stillness along the floor.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Outside, the wind goes wailing.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The velvet coverlet of the wide bed is smooth and cold. Above,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>in the firelight, winks the coronet of tarnished gold. The knight shivers</span>
						<br/>
						<span>in his coat of fur, and holds out his hands to the withering flame.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She is always the same, a sweet coquette. He will wait for her.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>How the log hisses and drips! How warm and satisfying will be her lips!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>It is wide and cold, the state bed; but when her head lies under the coronet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and her eyes are full and wet with love, and when she holds out her arms,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and the velvet counterpane half slips from her, and alarms</span>
						<br/>
						<span>her trembling modesty, how eagerly he will leap to cover her, and blot himself</span>
						<br/>
						<span>beneath the quilt, making her laugh and tremble.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Is it guilt to free a lady from her palsied lord, absent and fighting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>terribly abhorred?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>He stirs a booted heel and kicks a rolling coal. His spur clinks</span>
						<br/>
						<span>on the hearth. Overhead, the rain hammers and chinks. She is so pure</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and whole. Only because he has her soul will she resign herself to him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>for where the soul has gone, the body must be given as a sign. He takes her</span>
						<br/>
						<span>by the divine right of the only lover. He has sworn to fight her lord,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and wed her after. Should he be overborne, she will die adoring him, forlorn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>shriven by her great love.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Above, the coronet winks in the darkness. Drip⁠—hiss⁠—fall the raindrops.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The arras blows out from the wall, and a door bangs in a far-off hall.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The candles swale. In the gale the moat below plunges and spatters.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Will the lady lose courage and not come?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The rain claps on a loosened rafter.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Is that laughter?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The room is filled with lisps and whispers. Something mutters.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One candle drowns and the other gutters. Is that the rain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>which pads and patters, is it the wind through the winding entries</span>
						<br/>
						<span>which chatters?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The state bed is very cold and he is alone. How far from the wall</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the arras is blown!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Christ’s Death! It is no storm which makes these little chuckling sounds.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the Great Wounds of Holy Jesus, it is his dear lady, kissing and</span>
						<br/>
						<span>clasping someone! Through the sobbing storm he hears her love take form</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and flutter out in words. They prick into his ears and stun his desire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>which lies within him, hard and dead, like frozen fire. And the little noise</span>
						<br/>
						<span>never stops.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Drip⁠—hiss⁠—the rain drops.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>He tears down the arras from before an inner chamber’s bolted door.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="in-a-castle-2" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The state bed shivers in the watery dawn. Drip⁠—hiss⁠—fall the raindrops.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the storm never stops.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>On the velvet coverlet lie two bodies, stripped and fair in the cold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>grey air. Drip⁠—hiss⁠—fall the blood-drops, for the bleeding never stops.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The bodies lie quietly. At each side of the bed, on the floor, is a head.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A man’s on this side, a woman’s on that, and the red blood oozes along</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the rush mat.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A wisp of paper is twisted carefully into the strands of the dead man’s hair.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It says, “My Lord: Your wife’s paramour has paid with his life</span>
						<br/>
						<span>for the high favour.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Through the lady’s silver fillet is wound another paper. It reads,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Most noble Lord: Your wife’s misdeeds are as a double-stranded</span>
						<br/>
						<span>necklace of beads. But I have engaged that, on your return,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>she shall welcome you here. She will not spurn your love as before,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>you have still the best part of her. Her blood was red, her body white,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>they will both be here for your delight. The soul inside was a lump of dirt,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I have rid you of that with a spurt of my sword point. Good luck</span>
						<br/>
						<span>to your pleasure. She will be quite complaisant, my friend, I wager.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The end was a splashed flourish of ink.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Hark! In the passage is heard the clink of armour, the tread of a heavy man.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The door bursts open and standing there, his thin hair wavering</span>
						<br/>
						<span>in the glare of steely daylight, is my Lord of Clair.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Over the yawning chimney hangs the fog. Drip⁠—hiss⁠—drip⁠—hiss⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>fall the raindrops. Overhead hammers and chinks the rain which never stops.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The velvet coverlet is sodden and wet, yet the roof beams are tight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Overhead, the coronet gleams with its blackened gold, winking and blinking.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Among the rushes three corpses are growing cold.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="in-a-castle-3" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p>
						<span>In the castle church you may see them stand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Two sumptuous tombs on either hand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the choir, my Lord’s and my Lady’s, grand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In sculptured filigrees. And where the transepts of the church expand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A crusader, come from the Holy Land,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lies with crossed legs and embroidered band.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The page’s name became a brand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For shame. He was buried in crawling sand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>After having been burnt by royal command.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="the-book-of-hours-of-sister-clotilde" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Book of Hours of Sister Clotilde</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The Bell in the convent tower swung.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High overhead the great sun hung,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A navel for the curving sky.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The air was a blue clarity.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Swallows flew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And a cock crew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The iron clanging sank through the light air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rustled over with blowing branches. A flare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of spotted green, and a snake had gone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the bed where the snowdrops shone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In green new-started,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Their white bells parted.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Two by two, in a long brown line,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The nuns were walking to breathe the fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bright April air. They must go in soon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And work at their tasks all the afternoon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">But this time is theirs!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">They walk in pairs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>First comes the Abbess, preoccupied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And slow, as a woman often tried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With her temper in bond. Then the oldest nun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then younger and younger, until the last one</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Has a laugh on her lips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And fairly skips.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They wind about the gravel walks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the long line buzzes and talks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They step in time to the ringing bell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With scarcely a shadow. The sun is well</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In the core of a sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Domed silverly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sister Marguerite said: “The pears will soon bud.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sister Angelique said she must get her spud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And free the earth round the jasmine roots.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sister Veronique said: “Oh, look at those shoots!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">There’s a crocus up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">With a purple cup.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But Sister Clotilde said nothing at all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She looked up and down the old grey wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see if a lizard were basking there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She looked across the garden to where</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">A sycamore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Flanked the garden door.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She was restless, although her little feet danced,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And quite unsatisfied, for it chanced</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her morning’s work had hung in her mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And would not take form. She could not find</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The beautifulness</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">For the Virgin’s dress.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Should it be of pink, or damasked blue?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or perhaps lilac with gold shotted through?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should it be banded with yellow and white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roses, or sparked like a frosty night?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Or a crimson sheen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Over some sort of green?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But Clotilde’s eyes saw nothing new</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In all the garden, no single hue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So lovely or so marvellous</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That its use would not seem impious.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">So on she walked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And the others talked.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sister Elisabeth edged away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From what her companion had to say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Sister Marthe saw the world in little,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She weighed every grain and recorded each tittle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">She did plain stitching</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And worked in the kitchen.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Sister Radegonde knows the apples won’t last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I told her so this Friday past.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I must speak to her before Compline.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her words were like dust motes in slanting sunshine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The other nun sighed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">With her pleasure quite dried.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Suddenly Sister Berthe cried out:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The snowdrops are blooming!” They turned about.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The little white cups bent over the ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in among the light stems wound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">A crested snake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">With his eyes awake.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His body was green with a metal brightness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like an emerald set in a kind of whiteness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all down his curling length were disks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Evil vermilion asterisks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">They paled and flooded</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">As wounds fresh-blooded.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His crest was amber glittered with blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And opaque so the sun came shining through.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seemed a crown with fiery points.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he quivered all down his scaly joints,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">From every slot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The sparkles shot.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The nuns huddled tightly together, fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Catching their senses. But Clotilde must peer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More closely at the beautiful snake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She seemed entranced and eased. Could she make</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Colours so rare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The dress were there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Abbess shook off her lethargy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Sisters, we will walk on,” said she.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sidling away from the snowdrop bed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The line curved forwards, the Abbess ahead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Only Clotilde</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Was the last to yield.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When the recreation hour was done</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each went in to her task. Alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the library, with its great north light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clotilde wrought at an exquisite</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Wreath of flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">For her Book of Hours.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She twined the little crocus blooms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With snowdrops and daffodils, the glooms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of laurel leaves were interwoven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Stars-of-Bethlehem, and cloven</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Fritillaries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Whose colour varies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They framed the picture she had made,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Half-delighted and half-afraid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a courtyard with a lozenged floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Virgin watched, and through the arched door</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The angel came</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Like a springing flame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His wings were dipped in violet fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His limbs were strung to holy desire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He lowered his head and passed under the arch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the air seemed beating a solemn march.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The Virgin waited</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">With eyes dilated.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her face was quiet and innocent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And beautiful with her strange assent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A silver thread about her head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her halo was poised. But in the stead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of her gown, there remained</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The vellum, unstained.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Clotilde painted the flowers patiently,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lingering over each tint and dye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She could spend great pains, now she had seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That curious, unimagined green.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">A colour so strange</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">It had seemed to change.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She thought it had altered while she gazed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At first it had been simple green; then glazed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All over with twisting flames, each spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A molten colour, trembling and hot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And every eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Seemed to liquefy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She had made a plan, and her spirits danced.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After all, she had only glanced</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At that wonderful snake, and she must know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just what hues made the creature throw</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Those splashes and sprays</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of prismed rays.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When evening prayers were sung and said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The nuns lit their tapers and went to bed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And soon in the convent there was no light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the moon did not rise until late that night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Only the shine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of the lamp at the shrine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Clotilde lay still in her trembling sheets.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her heart shook her body with its beats.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She could not see till the moon should rise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So she whispered prayers and kept her eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">On the window-square</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Till light should be there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The faintest shadow of a branch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell on the floor. Clotilde, grown staunch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With solemn purpose, softly rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fluttered down between the rows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of sleeping nuns.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">She almost runs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She must go out through the little side door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest the nuns who were always praying before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Virgin’s altar should hear her pass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She pushed the bolts, and over the grass</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The red moon’s brim</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Mounted its rim.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her shadow crept up the convent wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As she swiftly left it, over all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The garden lay the level glow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a moon coming up, very big and slow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The gravel glistened.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">She stopped and listened.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It was still, and the moonlight was getting clearer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She laughed a little, but she felt queerer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than ever before. The snowdrop bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was reached and she bent down her head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">On the striped ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The snake was wound.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For a moment Clotilde paused in alarm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then she rolled up her sleeve and stretched out her arm.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She thought she heard steps, she must be quick.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She darted her hand out, and seized the thick</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Wriggling slime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Only just in time.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The old gardener came muttering down the path,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his shadow fell like a broad, black swath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And covered Clotilde and the angry snake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He bit her, but what difference did that make!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The Virgin should dress</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In his loveliness.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The gardener was covering his new-set plants</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the night was chilly, and nothing daunts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your lover of growing things. He spied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something to do and turned aside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And the moonlight streamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">On Clotilde, and gleamed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His business finished the gardener rose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He shook and swore, for the moonlight shows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A girl with a fire-tongued serpent, she</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grasping him, laughing, while quietly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Her eyes are weeping.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Is he sleeping?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He thinks it is some holy vision,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brushes that aside and with decision</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jumps⁠—and hits the snake with his stick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crushes his spine, and then with quick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Urgent command</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Takes her hand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The gardener sucks the poison and spits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cursing and praying as befits</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A poor old man half out of his wits.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Whatever possessed you, Sister, it’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Hatched of a devil</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And very evil.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It’s one of them horrid basilisks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You read about. They say a man risks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His life to touch it, but I guess I’ve sucked it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out by now. Lucky I chucked it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Away from you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">I guess you’ll do.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Oh, no, Francois, this beautiful beast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was sent to me, to me the least</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Worthy in all our convent, so I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could finish my picture of the Most High</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And Holy Queen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In her dress of green.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He is dead now, but his colours won’t fade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At once, and by noon I shall have made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Virgin’s robe. Oh, Francois, see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How kindly the moon shines down on me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">I can’t die yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">For the task was set.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“You won’t die now, for I’ve sucked it away,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grumbled old Francois, “so have your play.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If the Virgin is set on snake’s colours so strong⁠—”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Francois, don’t say things like that, it is wrong.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">So Clotilde vented</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Her creed. He repented.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“He can’t do no more harm, Sister,” said he.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Paint as much as you like.” And gingerly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He picked up the snake with his stick. Clotilde</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thanked him, and begged that he would shield</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Her secret, though itching</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">To talk in the kitchen.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The gardener promised, not very pleased,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Clotilde, with the strain of adventure eased,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walked quickly home, while the half-high moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made her beautiful snake-skin sparkle, and soon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In her bed she lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And waited for day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>At dawn’s first saffron-spired warning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clotilde was up. And all that morning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except when she went to the chapel to pray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She painted, and when the April day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Was hot with sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Clotilde had done.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Done! She drooped, though her heart beat loud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the beauty before her, and her spirit bowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the Virgin her finely-touched thought had made.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A lady, in excellence arrayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And wonder-souled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Christ’s Blessed Mould!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From long fasting Clotilde felt weary and faint,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But her eyes were starred like those of a saint</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enmeshed in Heaven’s beatitude.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sudden clamour hurled its rude</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Force to break</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Her vision awake.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The door nearly leapt from its hinges, pushed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the multitude of nuns. They hushed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When they saw Clotilde, in perfect quiet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smiling, a little perplexed at the riot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And all the hive</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Buzzed “She’s alive!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Old Francois had told. He had found the strain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of silence too great, and preferred the pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a conscience outraged. The news had spread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all were convinced Clotilde must be dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">For Francois, to spite them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Had not seen fit to right them.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Abbess, unwontedly trembling and mild,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put her arms round Clotilde and wept, “My child,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has the Holy Mother showed you this grace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To spare you while you imaged her face?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">How could we have guessed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Our convent so blessed!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A miracle! But Oh! My Lamb!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To have you die! And I, who am</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hollow, living shell, the grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is empty of me. Holy Mary, I crave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">To be taken, Dear Mother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Instead of this other.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She dropped on her knees and silently prayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With anguished hands and tears delayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a painful slowness. The minutes drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fractions. Then the west wind blew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The sound of a bell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">On a gusty swell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It came skipping over the slates of the roof,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the bright bell-notes seemed a reproof</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To grief, in the eye of so fair a day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Abbess, comforted, ceased to pray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And the sun lit the flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In Clotilde’s Book of Hours.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It glistened the green of the Virgin’s dress</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made the red spots, in a flushed excess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pulse and start; and the violet wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the angel were colour which shines and sings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The book seemed a choir</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of rainbow fire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Abbess crossed herself, and each nun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did the same, then one by one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They filed to the chapel, that incensed prayers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might plead for the life of this sister of theirs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Clotilde, the Inspired!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">She only felt tired.</span>
					<br/>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>The old chronicles say she did not die</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until heavy with years. And that is why</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There hangs in the convent church a basket</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of osiered silver, a holy casket,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And treasured therein</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">A dried snake-skin.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-exeter-road" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Exeter Road</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Panels of claret and blue which shine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under the moon like lees of wine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A coronet done in a golden scroll,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wheels which blunder and creak as they roll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the muddy ruts of a moorland track.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">They daren’t look back!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They are whipping and cursing the horses. Lord!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What brutes men are when they think they’re scored.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind, my bay gelding gallops with me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a steaming sweat, it is fine to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That coach, all claret, and gold, and blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Hop about and slue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They are scared half out of their wits, poor souls.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For my lord has a casket full of rolls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of minted sovereigns, and silver bars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I laugh to think how he’ll show his scars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In London to-morrow. He whines with rage</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In his varnished cage.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My lady has shoved her rings over her toes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis an ancient trick every night-rider knows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I shall relieve her of them yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I see she limps in the minuet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I must beg to celebrate this night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And the green moonlight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There’s nothing to hurry about, the plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is hours long, and the mud’s a strain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My gelding’s uncommonly strong in the loins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In half an hour I’ll bag the coins.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis a clear, sweet night on the turn of Spring.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The chase is the thing!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How the coach flashes and wobbles, the moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dripping down so quietly on it. A tune</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is beating out of the curses and screams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the cracking all through the painted seams.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Steady, old horse, we’ll keep it in sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">’Tis a rare fine night!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There’s a clump of trees on the dip of the down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the sky shimmers where it hangs over the town.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seems a shame to break the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In two with this pistol, but I’ve my share</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of drudgery like other men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">His hat? Amen!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hold up, you beast, now what the devil!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confound this moor for a pockholed, evil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rotten marsh. My right leg’s snapped.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis a mercy he’s rolled, but I’m nicely capped.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A broken-legged man and a broken-legged horse!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">They’ll get me, of course.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The cursed coach will reach the town</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they’ll all come out, every loafer grown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A lion to handcuff a man that’s down.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What’s that? Oh, the coachman’s bulleted hat!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll give it a head to fit it pat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Thank you! No cravat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<em>They handcuffed the body just for style,</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>And they hung him in chains for the volatile</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Wind to scour him flesh from bones.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>Way out on the moor you can hear the groans</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<em>His gibbet makes when it blows a gale.</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">
						<em>’Tis a common tale.</em>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-shadow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Shadow</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Paul Jannes was working very late,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this watch must be done by eight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To-morrow or the Cardinal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would certainly be vexed. Of all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His customers the old prelate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was the most important, for his state</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Descended to his watches and rings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he gave his mistresses many things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make them forget his age and smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he paid visits, and they could while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The time away with a diamond locket</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exceedingly well. So they picked his pocket,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he paid in jewels for his slobbering kisses.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This watch was made to buy him blisses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From an Austrian countess on her way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Home, and she meant to start next day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Paul worked by the pointed, tulip-flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a tallow candle, and became</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So absorbed, that his old clock made him wince</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Striking the hour a moment since.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its echo, only half apprehended,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lingered about the room. He ended</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Screwing the little rubies in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Setting the wheels to lock and spin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Curling the infinitesimal springs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fixing the filigree hands. Chippings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of precious stones lay strewn about.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The table before him was a rout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of splashes and sparks of coloured light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was yellow gold in sheets, and quite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A heap of emeralds, and steel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here was a gem, there was a wheel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And glasses lay like limpid lakes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shining and still, and there were flakes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of silver, and shavings of pearl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And little wires all awhirl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the light of the candle. He took the watch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wound its hands about to match</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The time, then glanced up to take the hour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the hanging clock.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Good, Merciful Power!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How came that shadow on the wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No woman was in the room! His tall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chiffonier stood gaunt behind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His chair. His old cloak, rabbit-lined,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hung from a peg. The door was closed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just for a moment he must have dozed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He looked again, and saw it plain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The silhouette made a blue-black stain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the opposite wall, and it never wavered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even when the candle quavered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under his panting breath. What made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That beautiful, dreadful thing, that shade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of something so lovely, so exquisite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cast from a substance which the sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had not been tutored to perceive?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul brushed his eyes across his sleeve.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Clear-cut, the Shadow on the wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gleamed black, and never moved at all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Paul’s watches were like amulets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wrought into patterns and rosettes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cases were all set with stones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wreathing lines, and shining zones.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He knew the beauty in a curve,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Shadow tortured every nerve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With its perfect rhythm of outline</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cutting the whitewashed wall. So fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was the neck he knew he could have spanned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It about with the fingers of one hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The chin rose to a mouth he guessed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But could not see, the lips were pressed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loosely together, the edges close,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the proud and delicate line of the nose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Melted into a brow, and there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broke into undulant waves of hair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lady was edged with the stamp of race.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A singular vision in such a place.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He moved the candle to the tall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chiffonier; the Shadow stayed on the wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He threw his cloak upon a chair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still the lady’s face was there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From every corner of the room</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He saw, in the patch of light, the gloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That was the lady. Her violet bloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was almost brighter than that which came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From his candle’s tulip-flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He set the filigree hands; he laid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The watch in the case which he had made;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He put on his rabbit cloak, and snuffed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His candle out. The room seemed stuffed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With darkness. Softly he crossed the floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let himself out through the door.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sun was flashing from every pin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wheel, when Paul let himself in.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The whitewashed walls were hot with light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The room was the core of a chrysolite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Burning and shimmering with fiery might.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun was so bright that no shadow could fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the furniture upon the wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul sighed as he looked at the empty space</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where a glare usurped the lady’s place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He settled himself to his work, but his mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wandered, and he would wake to find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His hand suspended, his eyes grown dim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nothing advanced beyond the rim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his dreaming. The Cardinal sent to pay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For his watch, which had purchased so fine a day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Paul could hardly touch the gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seemed the price of his Shadow, sold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the first twilight he struck a match</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And watched the little blue stars hatch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into an egg of perfect flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He lit his candle, and almost in shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At his eagerness, lifted his eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Shadow was there, and its precise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Outline etched the cold, white wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The young man swore, “By God! You, Paul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s something the matter with your brain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go home now and sleep off the strain.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The next day was a storm, the rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whispered and scratched at the window-pane.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A grey and shadowless morning filled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The little shop. The watches, chilled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were dead and sparkless as burnt-out coals.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gems lay on the table like shoals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of stranded shells, their colours faded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mere heaps of stone, dull and degraded.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul’s head was heavy, his hands obeyed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No orders, for his fancy strayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His work became a simple round</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of watches repaired and watches wound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The slanting ribbons of the rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broke themselves on the window-pane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Paul saw the silver lines in vain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only when the candle was lit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on the wall just opposite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He watched again the coming of <i>it</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could he trace a line for the joy of his soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And over his hands regain control.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Paul lingered late in his shop that night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the designs which his delight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sketched on paper seemed to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A tribute offered wistfully</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the beautiful shadow of her who came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hovered over his candle flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the morning he selected all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His perfect jacinths. One large opal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hung like a milky, rainbow moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the centre, and blown in loose festoon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The red stones quivered on silver threads</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the outer edge, where a single, fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Band of mother-of-pearl the line</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Completed. On the other side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The creamy porcelain of the face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bore diamond hours, and no lace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of cotton or silk could ever be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tossed into being more airily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than the filmy golden hands; the time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed to tick away in rhyme.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, at dusk, the Shadow grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the wall, Paul’s work was through.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Holding the watch, he spoke to her:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Lady, Beautiful Shadow, stir</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into one brief sign of being.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turn your eyes this way, and seeing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This watch, made from those sweet curves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where your hair from your forehead swerves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Accept the gift which I have wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With your fairness in my thought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grant me this, and I shall be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Honoured overwhelmingly.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Shadow rested black and still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the wind sighed over the window-sill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Paul put the despised watch away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And laid out before him his array</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of stones and metals, and when the morning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Struck the stones to their best adorning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He chose the brightest, and this new watch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was so light and thin it seemed to catch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sunlight’s nothingness, and its gleam.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Topazes ran in a foamy stream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the cover, the hands were studded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With garnets, and seemed red roses, budded.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The face was of crystal, and engraved</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon it the figures flashed and waved</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With zircons, and beryls, and amethysts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It took a week to make, and his trysts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At night with the Shadow were his alone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul swore not to speak till his task was done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The night that the jewel was worthy to give.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul watched the long hours of daylight live</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the faintest streak; then lit his light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sharp against the wall’s pure white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The outline of the Shadow started</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into form. His burning-hearted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Words so long imprisoned swelled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To tumbling speech. Like one compelled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He told the lady all his love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And holding out the watch above</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His head, he knelt, imploring some</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Littlest sign.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">The Shadow was dumb.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Weeks passed, Paul worked in fevered haste,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And everything he made he placed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before his lady. The Shadow kept</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its perfect passiveness. Paul wept.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wooed her with the work of his hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He waited for those dear commands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She never gave. No word, no motion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eased the ache of his devotion.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His days passed in a strain of toil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His nights burnt up in a seething coil.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seasons shot by, uncognisant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He worked. The Shadow came to haunt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even his days. Sometimes quite plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He saw on the wall the blackberry stain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his lady’s picture. No sun was bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough to dazzle that from his sight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There were moments when he groaned to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His life spilled out so uselessly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Begging for boons the Shade refused,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His finest workmanship abused,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The iridescent bubbles he blew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into lovely existence, poor and few</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the shadowed eyes. Then he would curse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Himself and her! The Universe!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And more, the beauty he could not make,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give her, for her comfort’s sake!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He would beat his weary, empty hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the table, would hold up strands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of silver and gold, and ask her why</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She scorned the best which he could buy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He would pray as to some high-niched saint,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That she would cure him of the taint</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of failure. He would clutch the wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With his bleeding fingers, if she should fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He could catch, and hold her, and make her live!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sobs he would ask her to forgive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All he had done. And broken, spent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He would call himself impertinent;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Presumptuous; a tradesman; a nothing; driven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To madness by the sight of Heaven.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At other times he would take the things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had made, and winding them on strings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hang garlands before her, and burn perfumes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chanting strangely, while the fumes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wreathed and blotted the shadow face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As with a cloudy, nacreous lace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There were days when he wooed as a lover, sighed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In tenderness, spoke to his bride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Urged her to patience, said his skill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should break the spell. A man’s sworn will</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could compass life, even that, he knew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Christ’s Blood! He would prove it true!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The edge of the Shadow never blurred.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lips of the Shadow never stirred.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He would climb on chairs to reach her lips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pat her hair with his finger-tips.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But instead of young, warm flesh returning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His warmth, the wall was cold and burning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like stinging ice, and his passion, chilled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay in his heart like some dead thing killed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the moment of birth. Then, deadly sick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He would lie in a swoon for hours, while thick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Phantasmagoria crowded his brain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his body shrieked in the clutch of pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crisis passed, he would wake and smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a vacant joy, half-imbecile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And quite confused, not being certain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why he was suffering; a curtain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fallen over the tortured mind beguiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His sorrow. Like a little child</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He would play with his watches and gems, with glee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calling the Shadow to look and see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How the spots on the ceiling danced prettily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he flashed his stones. “Mother, the green</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has slid so cunningly in between</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blue and the yellow. Oh, please look down!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, with a pitiful, puzzled frown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He would get up slowly from his play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And walk round the room, feeling his way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From table to chair, from chair to door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stepping over the cracks in the floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till reaching the table again, her face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would bring recollection, and no solace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could balm his hurt till unconsciousness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stifled him and his great distress.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One morning he threw the street door wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On coming in, and his vigorous stride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made the tools on his table rattle and jump.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his hands he carried a new-burst clump</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of laurel blossoms, whose smooth-barked stalks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were pliant with sap. As a husband talks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the wife he left an hour ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul spoke to the Shadow. “Dear, you know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To-day the calendar calls it Spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I woke this morning gathering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Asphodels, in my dreams, for you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I rushed out to see what flowers blew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their pink-and-purple-scented souls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across the town-wind’s dusty scrolls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made the approach to the Market Square</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A garden with smells and sunny air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I feel so well and happy to-day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think I shall take a Holiday.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to-night we will have a little treat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am going to bring you something to eat!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He looked at the Shadow anxiously.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was quite grave and silent. He</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shut the outer door and came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And leant against the window-frame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Dearest,” he said, “we live apart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although I bear you in my heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We look out each from a different world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At any moment we may be hurled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Asunder. They follow their orbits, we</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Obey their laws entirely.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now you must come, or I go there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless we are willing to live the flare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a lighted instant and have it gone.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A bee in the laurels began to drone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A loosened petal fluttered prone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Man grows by eating, if you eat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You will be filled with our life, sweet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will be our planet in your mouth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If not, I must parch in death’s wide drouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until I gain to where you are,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give you myself in whatever star</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May happen. O You Beloved of Me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it not ordered cleverly?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Shadow, bloomed like a plum, and clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hung in the sunlight. It did not hear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Paul slipped away as the dusk began</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To dim the little shop. He ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the nearest inn, and chose with care</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As much as his thin purse could bear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As rapt-souled monks watch over the baking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the sacred wafer, and through the making</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the holy wine whisper secret prayers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That God will bless this labour of theirs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Paul, in a sober ecstasy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Purchased the best which he could buy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Returning, he brushed his tools aside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And laid across the table a wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Napkin. He put a glass and plate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On either side, in duplicate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the lady’s, excellent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With loveliness, the laurels bent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the centre the white-flaked pastry stood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And beside it the wine flask. Red as blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was the wine which should bring the lustihood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of human life to his lady’s veins.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all was ready, all which pertains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a simple meal was there, with eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lit by the joy of his great emprise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He reverently bade her come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And forsake for him her distant home.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He put meat on her plate and filled her glass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And waited what should come to pass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Shadow lay quietly on the wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the street outside came a watchman’s call</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“A cloudy night. Rain beginning to fall.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And still he waited. The clock’s slow tick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knocked on the silence. Paul turned sick.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He filled his own glass full of wine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From his pocket he took a paper. The twine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was knotted, and he searched a knife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From his jumbled tools. The cord of life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Snapped as he cut the little string.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He knew that he must do the thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He feared. He shook powder into the wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And holding it up so the candle’s shine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sparked a ruby through its heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He drank it. “Dear, never apart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again! You have said it was mine to do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is done, and I am come to you!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Paul Jannes let the empty wine-glass fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And held out his arms. The insentient wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stared down at him with its cold, white glare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unstained! The Shadow was not there!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul clutched and tore at his tightening throat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He felt the veins in his body bloat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the hot blood run like fire and stones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the sides of his cracking bones.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he laughed as he staggered towards the door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he laughed aloud as he sank on the floor.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Coroner took the body away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the watches were sold that Saturday.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Auctioneer said one could seldom buy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such watches, and the prices were high.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-forsaken" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Forsaken</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Holy Mother of God, Merciful Mary. Hear me! I am very weary. I have come</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from a village miles away, all day I have been coming, and I ache for such</span>
					<br/>
					<span>far roaming. I cannot walk as light as I used, and my thoughts grow confused.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am heavier than I was. Mary Mother, you know the cause!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beautiful Holy Lady, take my shame away from me! Let this fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>be only seeming, let it be that I am dreaming. For months I have hoped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>it was so, now I am afraid I know. Lady, why should this be shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>just because I haven’t got his name. He loved me, yes, Lady, he did,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and he couldn’t keep it hid. We meant to marry. Why did he die?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That day when they told me he had gone down in the avalanche, and could not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>be found until the snow melted in Spring, I did nothing. I could not cry.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why should he die? Why should he die and his child live? His little child</span>
					<br/>
					<span>alive in me, for my comfort. No, Good God, for my misery! I cannot face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the shame, to be a mother, and not married, and the poor child to be reviled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for having no father. Merciful Mother, Holy Virgin, take away this sin I did.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let the baby not be. Only take the stigma off of me!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I have told no one but you, Holy Mary. My mother would call me “whore”,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and spit upon me; the priest would have me repent, and have</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the rest of my life spent in a convent. I am no whore, no bad woman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>he loved me, and we were to be married. I carried him always in my heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>what did it matter if I gave him the least part of me too? You were a virgin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Holy Mother, but you had a son, you know there are times when a woman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>must give all. There is some call to give and hold back nothing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I swear I obeyed God then, and this child who lives in me is the sign.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What am I saying? He is dead, my beautiful, strong man! I shall never</span>
					<br/>
					<span>feel him caress me again. This is the only baby I shall have.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, Holy Virgin, protect my baby! My little, helpless baby!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He will look like his father, and he will be as fast a runner and as good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a shot. Not that he shall be no scholar neither. He shall go to school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in winter, and learn to read and write, and my father will teach him to carve,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>so that he can make the little horses, and cows, and chamois,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>out of white wood. Oh, No! No! No! How can I think such things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am not good. My father will have nothing to do with my boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shall be an outcast thing. Oh, Mother of our Lord God, be merciful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>take away my shame! Let my body be as it was before he came.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No little baby for me to keep underneath my heart for those long months.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To live for and to get comfort from. I cannot go home and tell my mother.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She is so hard and righteous. She never loved my father, and we were born</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for duty, not for love. I cannot face it. Holy Mother, take my baby away!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take away my little baby! I don’t want it, I can’t bear it!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And I shall have nothing, nothing! Just be known as a good girl.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have other men want to marry me, whom I could not touch, after having known</span>
					<br/>
					<span>my man. Known the length and breadth of his beautiful white body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and the depth of his love, on the high Summer Alp, with the moon above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and the pine-needles all shiny in the light of it. He is gone, my man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shall never hear him or feel him again, but I could not touch another.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would rather lie under the snow with my own man in my arms!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So I shall live on and on. Just a good woman. With nothing to warm my heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>where he lay, and where he left his baby for me to care for. I shall not be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>quite human, I think. Merely a stone-dead creature. They will respect me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What do I care for respect! You didn’t care for people’s tongues</span>
					<br/>
					<span>when you were carrying our Lord Jesus. God had my man give me my baby,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>when He knew that He was going to take him away. His lips will comfort me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>his hands will soothe me. All day I will work at my lace-making,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and all night I will keep him warm by my side and pray the blessed Angels</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to cover him with their wings. Dear Mother, what is it that sings?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hear voices singing, and lovely silver trumpets through it all. They seem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>just on the other side of the wall. Let me keep my baby, Holy Mother.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He is only a poor lace-maker’s baby, with a stain upon him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but give me strength to bring him up to be a man.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="late-september" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Late September</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Tang of fruitage in the air;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red boughs bursting everywhere;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shimmering of seeded grass;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hooded gentians all a’mass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Warmth of earth, and cloudless wind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tearing off the husky rind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blowing feathered seeds to fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the sun-baked, sheltering wall.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beech trees in a golden haze;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hardy sumachs all ablaze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glowing through the silver birches.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How that pine tree shouts and lurches!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From the sunny door-jamb high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swings the shell of a butterfly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scrape of insect violins</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the stubble shrilly dins.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Every blade’s a minaret</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where a small muezzin’s set,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loudly calling us to pray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the miracle of day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then the purple-lidded night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Westering comes, her footsteps light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Guided by the radiant boon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a sickle-shaped new moon.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-pike" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Pike</h2>
				<p>
					<span>In the brown water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thick and silver-sheened in the sunshine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Liquid and cool in the shade of the reeds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A pike dozed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lost among the shadows of stems</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He lay unnoticed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suddenly he flicked his tail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a green-and-copper brightness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ran under the water.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Out from under the reeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came the olive-green light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And orange flashed up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the sun-thickened water.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So the fish passed across the pool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Green and copper,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A darkness and a gleam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the blurred reflections of the willows on the opposite bank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Received it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-blue-scarf" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Blue Scarf</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Pale, with the blue of high zeniths, shimmered over with silver, brocaded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In smooth, running patterns, a soft stuff, with dark knotted fringes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">it lies there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Warm from a woman’s soft shoulders, and my fingers close on it, caressing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where is she, the woman who wore it? The scent of her lingers and drugs me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A languor, fire-shotted, runs through me, and I crush the scarf down</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">on my face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gulp in the warmth and the blueness, and my eyes swim</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">in cool-tinted heavens.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around me are columns of marble, and a diapered, sun-flickered pavement.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rose-leaves blow and patter against it. Below the stone steps a lute tinkles.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A jar of green jade throws its shadow half over the floor. A big-bellied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frog hops through the sunlight and plops in the gold-bubbled water of a basin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sunk in the black and white marble. The west wind has lifted a scarf</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the seat close beside me, the blue of it is a violent outrage of colour.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She draws it more closely about her, and it ripples beneath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">her slight stirring.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her kisses are sharp buds of fire; and I burn back against her, a jewel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hard and white; a stalked, flaming flower; till I break to</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">a handful of cinders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And open my eyes to the scarf, shining blue in the afternoon sunshine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How loud clocks can tick when a room is empty, and one is alone!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="white-and-green" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">White and Green</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Hey! My daffodil-crowned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slim and without sandals!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the sudden spurt of flame upon darkness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So my eyeballs are startled with you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Supple-limbed youth among the fruit-trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Light runner through tasselled orchards.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are an almond flower unsheathed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaping and flickering between the budded branches.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="aubade" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Aubade</h2>
				<p>
					<span>As I would free the white almond from the green husk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So would I strip your trappings off,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beloved.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fingering the smooth and polished kernel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I should see that in my hands glittered a gem beyond counting.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="music" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Music</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The neighbour sits in his window and plays the flute.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From my bed I can hear him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the round notes flutter and tap about the room,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hit against each other,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blurring to unexpected chords.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is very beautiful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the little flute-notes all about me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the darkness.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In the daytime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The neighbour eats bread and onions with one hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And copies music with the other.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He is fat and has a bald head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I do not look at him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But run quickly past his window.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is always the sky to look at,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or the water in the well!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But when night comes and he plays his flute,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think of him as a young man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With gold seals hanging from his watch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a blue coat with silver buttons.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I lie in my bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flute-notes push against my ears and lips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I go to sleep, dreaming.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-lady" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Lady</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You are beautiful and faded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like an old opera tune</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Played upon a harpsichord;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or like the sun-flooded silks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of an eighteenth-century boudoir.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In your eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smoulder the fallen roses of out-lived minutes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the perfume of your soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is vague and suffusing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the pungence of sealed spice-jars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your half-tones delight me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I grow mad with gazing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At your blent colours.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My vigour is a new-minted penny,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which I cast at your feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gather it up from the dust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That its sparkle may amuse you.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-a-garden" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">In a Garden</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Gushing from the mouths of stone men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To spread at ease under the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In granite-lipped basins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where iris dabble their feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rustle to a passing wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The water fills the garden with its rushing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the midst of the quiet of close-clipped lawns.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Damp smell the ferns in tunnels of stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where trickle and plash the fountains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Marble fountains, yellowed with much water.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Splashing down moss-tarnished steps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It falls, the water;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the air is throbbing with it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With its gurgling and running.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With its leaping, and deep, cool murmur.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And I wished for night and you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wanted to see you in the swimming-pool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>White and shining in the silver-flecked water.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the moon rode over the garden,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High in the arch of night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the scent of the lilacs was heavy with stillness.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Night, and the water, and you in your whiteness, bathing!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-tulip-garden" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Tulip Garden</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Guarded within the old red wall’s embrace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Marshalled like soldiers in gay company,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The tulips stand arrayed. Here infantry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wheels out into the sunlight. What bold grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sets off their tunics, white with crimson lace!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Here are platoons of gold-frocked cavalry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With scarlet sabres tossing in the eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of purple batteries, every gun in place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Forward they come, with flaunting colours spread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With torches burning, stepping out in time</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To some quick, unheard march. Our ears are dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We cannot catch the tune. In pantomime</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parades that army. With our utmost powers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We hear the wind stream through a bed of flowers.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
