<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Sword Blades And Poppy Seed</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="sword-blades-and-poppy-seed" epub:type="chapter">
			<article id="sword-blades-and-poppy-seed" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Sword Blades And Poppy Seed</h2>
				<p>
					<span>A drifting, April, twilight sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A wind which blew the puddles dry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And slapped the river into waves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That ran and hid among the staves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of an old wharf. A watery light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Touched bleak the granite bridge, and white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without the slightest tinge of gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The city shivered in the cold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All day my thoughts had lain as dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unborn and bursting in my head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From time to time I wrote a word</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which lines and circles overscored.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My table seemed a graveyard, full</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of coffins waiting burial.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I seized these vile abortions, tore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Them into jagged bits, and swore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be the dupe of hope no more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the evening straight I went,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Starved of a day’s accomplishment.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unnoticing, I wandered where</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The city gave a space for air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on the bridge’s parapet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I leant, while pallidly there set</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dim, discouraged, worn-out sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind me, where the tramways run,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blossomed bright lights, I turned to leave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When someone plucked me by the sleeve.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Your pardon, Sir, but I should be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Most grateful could you lend to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A carfare, I have lost my purse.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The voice was clear, concise, and terse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I turned and met the quiet gaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of strange eyes flashing through the haze.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The man was old and slightly bent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under his cloak some instrument</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Disarranged its stately line,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He rested on his cane a fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nervous hand, an almandine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smouldered with dull-red flames, sanguine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It burned in twisted gold, upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His finger. Like some Spanish don,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Conferring favours even when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Asking an alms, he bowed again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And waited. But my pockets proved</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Empty, in vain I poked and shoved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No hidden penny lurking there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Greeted my search. “Sir, I declare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have no money, pray forgive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But let me take you where you live.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so we plodded through the mire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where street lamps cast a wavering fire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I took no note of where we went,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His talk became the element</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherein my being swam, content.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It flashed like rapiers in the night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lit by uncertain candle-light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When on some moon-forsaken sward</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A quarrel dies upon a sword.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It hacked and carved like a cutlass blade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the noise in the air the broad words made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was the cry of the wind at a window-pane</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On an Autumn night of sobbing rain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then it would run like a steady stream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under pinnacled bridges where minarets gleam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or lap the air like the lapping tide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where a marble staircase lifts its wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Green-spotted steps to a garden gate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a waning moon is sinking straight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down to a black and ominous sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While a nightingale sings in a lemon tree.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I walked as though some opiate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had stung and dulled my brain, a state</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Acute and slumbrous. It grew late.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We stopped, a house stood silent, dark.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The old man scratched a match, the spark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lit up the keyhole of a door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We entered straight upon a floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>White with finest powdered sand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Carefully sifted, one might stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Muddy and dripping, and yet no trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would stain the boards of this kitchen-place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the chimney, red eyes sparked the gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a cricket’s chirp filled all the room.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My host threw pine-cones on the fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And crimson and scarlet glowed the pyre</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wrapped in the golden flame’s desire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The chamber opened like an eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a half-melted cloud in a Summer sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soul of the house stood guessed, and shy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It peered at the stranger warily.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little shop with its various ware</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spread on shelves with nicest care.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pitchers, and jars, and jugs, and pots,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pipkins, and mugs, and many lots</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of lacquered canisters, black and gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like those in which Chinese tea is sold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chests, and puncheons, kegs, and flasks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Goblets, chalices, firkins, and casks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a corner three ancient amphorae leaned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the wall, like ships careened.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was dusky blue of Wedgewood ware,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The carved, white figures fluttering there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like leaves adrift upon the air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Classic in touch, but emasculate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Greek soul grown effeminate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The factory of Sevres had lent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Elegant boxes with ornament</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Culled from gardens where fountains splashed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And golden carp in the shadows flashed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nuzzling for crumbs under lily-pads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which ladies threw as the last of fads.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eggshell trays where gay beaux knelt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hand on heart, and daintily spelt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their love in flowers, brittle and bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Artificial and fragile, which told aright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vows of an eighteenth-century knight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cruder tones of old Dutch jugs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glared from one shelf, where Toby mugs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Endlessly drank the foaming ale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its froth grown dusty, awaiting sale.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The glancing light of the burning wood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Played over a group of jars which stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a distant shelf, it seemed the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had lent the half-tones of his blazonry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To paint these porcelains with unknown hues</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of reds dyed purple and greens turned blues,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of lustres with so evanescent a sheen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their colours are felt, but never seen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strange winged dragons writhe about</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These vases, poisoned venoms spout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Impregnate with old Chinese charms;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sealed urns containing mortal harms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They fill the mind with thoughts impure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pestilent drippings from the ure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of vicious thinkings. “Ah, I see,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said I, “you deal in pottery.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The old man turned and looked at me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shook his head gently. “No,” said he.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then from under his cloak he took the thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which I had wondered to see him bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Guarded so carefully from sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he laid it down it flashed in the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Toledo blade, with basket hilt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Damascened with arabesques of gilt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or rather gold, and tempered so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It could cut a floating thread at a blow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The old man smiled, “It has no sheath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas a little careless to have it beneath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My cloak, for a jostle to my arm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would have resulted in serious harm.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But it was so fine, I could not wait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I brought it with me despite its state.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“An amateur of arms,” I thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Bringing home a prize which he has bought.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You care for this sort of thing, Dear Sir?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Not in the way which you infer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I need them in business, that is all.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he pointed his finger at the wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I saw what I had not noticed before.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The walls were hung with at least five score</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of swords and daggers of every size</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which nations of militant men could devise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poisoned spears from tropic seas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That natives, under banana trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smear with the juice of some deadly snake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blood-dipped arrows, which savages make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tip with feathers, orange and green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A quivering death, in harlequin sheen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High up, a fan of glancing steel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was formed of claymores in a wheel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jewelled swords worn at kings’ levees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were suspended next midshipmen’s dirks, and these</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Elbowed stilettos come from Spain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chased with some splendid Hidalgo’s name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There were Samurai swords from old Japan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scimitars from Hindoostan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the blade of a Turkish yataghan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made a waving streak of vitreous white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the wall, in the firelight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Foils with buttons broken or lost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay heaped on a chair, among them tossed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The boarding-pike of a privateer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the chimney leaned a queer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two-handed weapon, with edges dull</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As though from hacking on a skull.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rusted blood corroded it still.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My host took up a paper spill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From a heap which lay in an earthen bowl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lighted it at a burning coal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At either end of the table, tall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wax candles were placed, each in a small,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And slim, and burnished candlestick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of pewter. The old man lit each wick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the room leapt more obviously</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon my mind, and I could see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What the flickering fire had hid from me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above the chimney’s yawning throat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shoulder high, like the dark wainscote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was a mantelshelf of polished oak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blackened with the pungent smoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of firelit nights; a Cromwell clock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of tarnished brass stood like a rock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the midst of a heaving, turbulent sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of every sort of cutlery.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There lay knives sharpened to any use,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The keenest lancet, and the obtuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blunted pruning bill-hook; blades</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of razors, scalpels, shears; cascades</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of penknives, with handles of mother-of-pearl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scythes, and sickles, and scissors; a whirl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of points and edges, and underneath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shot the gleam of a saw with bristling teeth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My head grew dizzy, I seemed to hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A battle-cry from somewhere near,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The clash of arms, and the squeal of balls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the echoless thud when a dead man falls.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A smoky cloud had veiled the room,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shot through with lurid glares; the gloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pounded with shouts and dying groans,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the drip of blood on cold, hard stones.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sabres and lances in streaks of light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gleamed through the smoke, and at my right</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A creese, like a licking serpent’s tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glittered an instant, while it stung.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Streams, and points, and lines of fire!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The livid steel, which man’s desire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had forged and welded, burned white and cold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every blade which man could mould,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which could cut, or slash, or cleave, or rip,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or pierce, or thrust, or carve, or strip,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or gash, or chop, or puncture, or tear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or slice, or hack, they all were there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nerveless and shaking, round and round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stared at the walls and at the ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the room spun like a whipping top,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a stern voice in my ear said, “Stop!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sell no tools for murderers here.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of what are you thinking! Please clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your mind of such imaginings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sit down. I will tell you of these things.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He pushed me into a great chair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of russet leather, poked a flare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of tumbling flame, with the old long sword,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up the chimney; but said no word.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slowly he walked to a distant shelf,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And brought back a crock of finest delf.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He rested a moment a blue-veined hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the cover, then cut a band</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of paper, pasted neatly round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Opened and poured. A sliding sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came from beneath his old white hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I saw a little heap of sands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Black and smooth. What could they be:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Pepper,” I thought. He looked at me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What you see is poppy seed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lethean dreams for those in need.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He took up the grains with a gentle hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sifted them slowly like hour-glass sand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On his old white finger the almandine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shot out its rays, incarnadine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Visions for those too tired to sleep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These seeds cast a film over eyes which weep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No single soul in the world could dwell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without these poppy-seeds I sell.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For a moment he played with the shining stuff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passing it through his fingers. Enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last, he poured it back into</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The china jar of Holland blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which he carefully carried to its place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, with a smile on his aged face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He drew up a chair to the open space</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twixt table and chimney. “Without preface,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Young man, I will say that what you see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is not the puzzle you take it to be.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“But surely, Sir, there is something strange</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a shop with goods at so wide a range</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each from the other, as swords and seeds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your neighbours must have greatly differing needs.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“My neighbours,” he said, and he stroked his chin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Live everywhere from here to Pekin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you are wrong, my sort of goods</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is but one thing in all its moods.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He took a shagreen letter case</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From his pocket, and with charming grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Offered me a printed card.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I read the legend, “Ephraim Bard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dealer in Words.” And that was all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stared at the letters, whimsical</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Indeed, or was it merely a jest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He answered my unasked request:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“All books are either dreams or swords,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You can cut, or you can drug, with words.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My firm is a very ancient house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The entries on my books would rouse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your wonder, perhaps incredulity.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I inherited from an ancestry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stretching remotely back and far,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This business, and my clients are</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As were those of my grandfather’s days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Writers of books, and poems, and plays.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My swords are tempered for every speech,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For fencing wit, or to carve a breach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through old abuses the world condones.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In another room are my grindstones and hones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For whetting razors and putting a point</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On daggers, sometimes I even anoint</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blades with a subtle poison, so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A twofold result may follow the blow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These are purchased by men who feel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The need of stabbing society’s heel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which egotism has brought them to think</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is set on their necks. I have foils to pink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An adversary to quaint reply,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I have customers who buy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scalpels with which to dissect the brains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hearts of men. Ultramundanes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even demand some finer kinds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To open their own souls and minds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the other half of my business deals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With visions and fancies. Under seals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sorted, and placed in vessels here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I keep the seeds of an atmosphere.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each jar contains a different kind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of poppy seed. From farthest Ind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come the purple flowers, opium filled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From which the weirdest myths are distilled;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My orient porcelains contain them all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those Lowestoft pitchers against the wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hold a lighter kind of bright conceit;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And those old Saxe vases, out of the heat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On that lowest shelf beside the door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have a sort of Ideal, “couleur d’or”.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every castle of the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sleeps in the fine black grains, and there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are seeds for every romance, or light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whiff of a dream for a summer night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I supply to every want and taste.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas slowly said, in no great haste</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He seemed to push his wares, but I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dumfounded listened. By and by</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A log on the fire broke in two.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He looked up quickly, “Sir, and you?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I groped for something I should say;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amazement held me numb. “To-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You sweated at a fruitless task.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He spoke for me, “What do you ask?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How can I serve you?” “My kind host,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My penniless state was not a boast;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have no money with me.” He smiled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Not for that money I beguiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You here; you paid me in advance.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again I felt as though a trance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had dimmed my faculties. Again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He spoke, and this time to explain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The money I demand is Life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your nervous force, your joy, your strife!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What infamous proposal now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was made me with so calm a brow?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bursting through my lethargy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Indignantly I hurled the cry:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Is this a nightmare, or am I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drunk with some infernal wine?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am no Faust, and what is mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is what I call my soul! Old Man!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Devil or Ghost! Your hellish plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Revolts me. Let me go.” “My child,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the old tones were very mild,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I have no wish to barter souls;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My traffic does not ask such tolls.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am no devil; is there one?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Surely the age of fear is gone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We live within a daylight world</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lit by the sun, where winds unfurled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweep clouds to scatter pattering rain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then blow back the sun again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sell my fancies, or my swords,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To those who care far more for words,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ideas, of which they are the sign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than any other life-design.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who buy of me must simply pay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their whole existence quite away:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their strength, their manhood, and their prime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their hours from morning till the time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When evening comes on tiptoe feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And losing life, think it complete;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must miss what other men count being,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To gain the gift of deeper seeing;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must spurn all ease, all hindering love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All which could hold or bind; must prove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The farthest boundaries of thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shun no end which these have brought;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then die in satisfaction, knowing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That what was sown was worth the sowing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I claim for all the goods I sell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That they will serve their purpose well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And though you perish, they will live.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full measure for your pay I give.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To-day you worked, you thought, in vain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What since has happened is the train</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your toiling brought. I spoke to you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For my share of the bargain, due.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“My life! And is that all you crave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In pay? What even childhood gave!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have been dedicate from youth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before my God I speak the truth!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fatigue, excitement of the past</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Few hours broke me down at last.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All day I had forgot to eat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My nerves betrayed me, lacking meat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I bowed my head and felt the storm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Plough shattering through my prostrate form.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tearless sobs tore at my heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My host withdrew himself apart;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Busied among his crockery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He paid no farther heed to me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exhausted, spent, I huddled there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within the arms of the old carved chair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A long half-hour dragged away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then I heard a kind voice say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The day will soon be dawning, when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You must begin to work again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here are the things which you require.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the fading light of the dying fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And by the guttering candle’s flare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw the old man standing there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He handed me a packet, tied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With crimson tape, and sealed. “Inside</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are seeds of many differing flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To occupy your utmost powers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of storied vision, and these swords</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are the finest which my shop affords.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go home and use them; do not spare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yourself; let that be all your care.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whatever you have means to buy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be very sure I can supply.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He slowly walked to the window, flung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It open, and in the grey air rung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sound of distant matin bells.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I took my parcels. Then, as tells</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An ancient mumbling monk his beads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I tried to thank for his courteous deeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My strange old friend. “Nay, do not talk,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He urged me, “you have a long walk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before you. Good-by and Good-day!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gently sped upon my way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stumbled out in the morning hush,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As down the empty street a flush</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ran level from the rising sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Another day was just begun.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
