<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Sword Blades</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="sword-blades" epub:type="chapter">
			<article id="the-captured-goddess" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Captured Goddess</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Over the housetops,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above the rotating chimney-pots,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have seen a shiver of amethyst,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blue and cinnamon have flickered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A moment,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the far end of a dusty street.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Through sheeted rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has come a lustre of crimson,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I have watched moonbeams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hushed by a film of palest green.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It was her wings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Goddess!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who stepped over the clouds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And laid her rainbow feathers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aslant on the currents of the air.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I followed her for long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With gazing eyes and stumbling feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cared not where she led me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My eyes were full of colours:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saffrons, rubies, the yellows of beryls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the indigo-blue of quartz;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flights of rose, layers of chrysoprase,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Points of orange, spirals of vermilion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The spotted gold of tiger-lily petals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loud pink of bursting hydrangeas.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I followed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And watched for the flashing of her wings.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In the city I found her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The narrow-streeted city.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the market-place I came upon her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bound and trembling.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her fluted wings were fastened to her sides with cords,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was naked and cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For that day the wind blew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without sunshine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Men chaffered for her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They bargained in silver and gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In copper, in wheat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And called their bids across the market-place.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Goddess wept.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hiding my face I fled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the grey wind hissed behind me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the narrow streets.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-precinct-rochester" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Precinct. Rochester</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The tall yellow hollyhocks stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still and straight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With their round blossoms spread open,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the quiet sunshine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still is the old Roman wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rough with jagged bits of flint,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And jutting stones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old and cragged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quite still in its antiquity.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pear-trees press their branches against it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And feeling it warm and kindly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The little pears ripen to yellow and red.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They hang heavy, bursting with juice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So old, so still!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sky is still.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The clouds make no sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As they slide away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beyond the Cathedral Tower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the river,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is very quiet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Very sunny.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The myrtle flowers stretch themselves in the sunshine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But make no sound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The roses push their little tendrils up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And climb higher and higher.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In spots they have climbed over the wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But they are very still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They do not seem to move.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the old wall carries them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without effort, and quietly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ripens and shields the vines and blossoms.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A bird in a plane-tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sings a few notes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cadenced and perfect</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They weave into the silence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Cathedral bell knocks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One, two, three, and again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a quiet sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calling to prayer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hardly scattering the stillness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only making it close in more densely.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gardener picks ripe gooseberries</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the Dean’s supper to-night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is very quiet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Very regulated and mellow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the wall is old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It has known many days.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a Roman wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Left-over and forgotten.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beyond the Cathedral Close</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yelp and mutter the discontents of people not mellow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not well-regulated.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>People who care more for bread than for beauty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who would break the tombs of saints,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give the painted windows of churches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To their children for toys.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>People who say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“They are dead, we live!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world is for the living.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fools! It is always the dead who breed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crush the ripe fruit, and cast it aside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet its seeds shall fructify,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And trees rise where your huts were standing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the little people are ignorant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They chaffer, and swarm.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They gnaw like rats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the foundations of the Cathedral are honeycombed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Dean is in the Chapter House;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He is reading the architect’s bill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the completed restoration of the Cathedral.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He will have ripe gooseberries for supper,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then he will walk up and down the path</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And admire the snapdragons and dahlias,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinking how quiet and peaceful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The garden is.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The old wall will watch him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Very quietly and patiently it will watch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the wall is old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a Roman wall.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-cyclists" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Cyclists</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Spread on the roadway,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With open-blown jackets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like black, soaring pinions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They swoop down the hillside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The Cyclists.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Seeming dark-plumaged</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Birds, after carrion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Careening and circling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the dying</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Of England.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She lies with her bosom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath them, no longer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Dominant Mother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Virile⁠—but rotting</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Before time.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The smell of her, tainted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has bitten their nostrils.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exultant they hover,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shadow the sun with</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Foreboding.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sunshine-through-a-cobwebbed-window" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Sunshine through a Cobwebbed Window</h2>
				<p>
					<span>What charm is yours, you faded old-world tapestries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of outworn, childish mysteries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Vague pageants woven on a web of dream!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And we, pushing and fighting in the turbid stream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of modern life, find solace in your tarnished broideries.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Old lichened halls, sun-shaded by huge cedar-trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The layered branches horizontal stretched, like Japanese</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dark-banded prints. Carven cathedrals, on a sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of faintest colour, where the gothic spires fly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sway like masts, against a shifting breeze.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Worm-eaten pages, clasped in old brown vellum, shrunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From over-handling, by some anxious monk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or Virgin’s Hours, bright with gold and graven</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With flowers, and rare birds, and all the Saints of Heaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Noah’s ark stuck on Ararat, when all the world had sunk.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They soothe us like a song, heard in a garden, sung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By youthful minstrels, on the moonlight flung</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In cadences and falls, to ease a queen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Widowed and childless, cowering in a screen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of myrtles, whose life hangs with all its threads unstrung.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-london-thoroughfare-2-am" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A London Thoroughfare. 2 A.m.</h2>
				<p>
					<span>They have watered the street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It shines in the glare of lamps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cold, white lamps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a slow-moving river,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Barred with silver and black.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cabs go down it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then another.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between them I hear the shuffling of feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tramps doze on the window-ledges,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Night-walkers pass along the sidewalks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The city is squalid and sinister,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the silver-barred street in the midst,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slow-moving,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A river leading nowhere.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Opposite my window,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The moon cuts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clear and round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the plum-coloured night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She cannot light the city;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is too bright.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It has white lamps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And glitters coldly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I stand in the window and watch the moon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She is thin and lustreless,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I love her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know the moon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this is an alien city.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="astigmatism" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h2 epub:type="title">Astigmatism</h2>
					<p epub:type="z3998:dedication">To Ezra Pound<br/>
					With much friendship and admiration and some differences of opinion</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The Poet took his walking-stick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of fine and polished ebony.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Set in the close-grained wood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were quaint devices;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Patterns in ambers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the clouded green of jades.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The top was of smooth, yellow ivory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a tassel of tarnished gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hung by a faded cord from a hole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pierced in the hard wood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Circled with silver.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For years the Poet had wrought upon this cane.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His wealth had gone to enrich it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His experiences to pattern it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His labour to fashion and burnish it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To him it was perfect,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A work of art and a weapon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A delight and a defence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Poet took his walking-stick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And walked abroad.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Peace be with you, Brother.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Poet came to a meadow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sifted through the grass were daisies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Open-mouthed, wondering, they gazed at the sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Poet struck them with his cane.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The little heads flew off, and they lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dying, open-mouthed and wondering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the hard ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“They are useless. They are not roses,” said the Poet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Peace be with you, Brother. Go your ways.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Poet came to a stream.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Purple and blue flags waded in the water;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In among them hopped the speckled frogs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wind slid through them, rustling.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Poet lifted his cane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the iris heads fell into the water.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They floated away, torn and drowning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Wretched flowers,” said the Poet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“They are not roses.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Peace be with you, Brother. It is your affair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Poet came to a garden.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dahlias ripened against a wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gillyflowers stood up bravely for all their short stature,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a trumpet-vine covered an arbour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the red and gold of its blossoms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red and gold like the brass notes of trumpets.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Poet knocked off the stiff heads of the dahlias,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his cane lopped the gillyflowers at the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then he severed the trumpet-blossoms from their stems.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red and gold they lay scattered,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red and gold, as on a battle field;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red and gold, prone and dying.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“They were not roses,” said the Poet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Peace be with you, Brother.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But behind you is destruction, and waste places.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Poet came home at evening,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the candle-light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wiped and polished his cane.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The orange candle flame leaped in the yellow ambers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made the jades undulate like green pools.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It played along the bright ebony,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And glowed in the top of cream-coloured ivory.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But these things were dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only the candle-light made them seem to move.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“It is a pity there were no roses,” said the Poet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Peace be with you, Brother. You have chosen your part.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-coal-picker" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Coal Picker</h2>
				<p>
					<span>He perches in the slime, inert,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bedaubed with iridescent dirt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The oil upon the puddles dries</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To colours like a peacock’s eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And half-submerged tomato-cans</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shine scaly, as leviathans</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oozily crawling through the mud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ground is here and there bestud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With lumps of only part-burned coal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His duty is to glean the whole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pick them from the filth, each one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hoard them for the hidden sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which glows within each fiery core</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And waits to be made free once more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their sharp and glistening edges cut</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His stiffened fingers. Through the smut</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gleam red the wounds which will not shut.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wet through and shivering he kneels</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And digs the slippery coals; like eels</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They slide about. His force all spent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He counts his small accomplishment.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A half-a-dozen clinker-coals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which still have fire in their souls.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fire! And in his thought there burns</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The topaz fire of votive urns.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sees it fling from hill to hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still consumed, is burning still.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Higher and higher leaps the flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The smoke an ever-shifting frame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sees a Spanish Castle old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With silver steps and paths of gold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From myrtle bowers comes the plash</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of fountains, and the emerald flash</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of parrots in the orange trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose blossoms pasture humming bees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He knows he feeds the urns whose smoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bears visions, that his master-stroke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is out of dirt and misery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To light the fire of poesy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sees the glory, yet he knows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That others cannot see his shows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To them his smoke is sightless, black,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His votive vessels but a pack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of old discarded shards, his fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A peddler’s; still to him the pyre</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is incensed, an enduring goal!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sighs and grubs another coal.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="storm-racked" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Storm-Racked</h2>
				<p>
					<span>How should I sing when buffeting salt waves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And stung with bitter surges, in whose might</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I toss, a cockleshell? The dreadful night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Marshals its undefeated dark and raves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In brutal madness, reeling over graves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of vanquished men, long-sunken out of sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sent wailing down to glut the ghoulish sprite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who haunts foul seaweed forests and their caves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No parting cloud reveals a watery star,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My cries are washed away upon the wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My cramped and blistering hands can find no spar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My eyes with hope o’erstrained, are growing blind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But painted on the sky great visions burn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My voice, oblation from a shattered urn!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="convalescence" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Convalescence</h2>
				<p>
					<span>From out the dragging vastness of the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wave-fettered, bound in sinuous, seaweed strands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He toils toward the rounding beach, and stands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One moment, white and dripping, silently,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cut like a cameo in lazuli,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then falls, betrayed by shifting shells, and lands</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Prone in the jeering water, and his hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clutch for support where no support can be.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So up, and down, and forward, inch by inch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He gains upon the shore, where poppies glow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sandflies dance their little lives away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sucking waves retard, and tighter clinch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weeds about him, but the land-winds blow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the sky there blooms the sun of May.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="patience" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Patience</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Be patient with you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When the stooping sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leans down upon the hills</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tenderly, as one who soothing stills</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An anguish, gathers earth to lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Embraced and girdled. Do the sun-filled men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Feel patience then?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Be patient with you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When the snow-girt earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cracks to let through a spurt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sudden green, and from the muddy dirt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A snowdrop leaps, how mark its worth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To eyes frost-hardened, and do weary men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Feel patience then?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Be patient with you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When pain’s iron bars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their rivets tighten, stern</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bend and break their victims; as they turn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hopeless, there stand the purple jars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of night to spill oblivion. Do these men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Feel patience then?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Be patient with you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You! My sun and moon!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My basketful of flowers!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My money-bag of shining dreams! My hours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Windless and still, of afternoon!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are my world and I your citizen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What meaning can have patience then?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="apology" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Apology</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Be not angry with me that I bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your colours everywhere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All through each crowded street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And meet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The wonder-light in every eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">As I go by.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Each plodding wayfarer looks up to gaze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Blinded by rainbow haze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The stuff of happiness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">No less,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which wraps me in its glad-hued folds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of peacock golds.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Before my feet the dusty, rough-paved way</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Flushes beneath its gray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My steps fall ringed with light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">So bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It seems a myriad suns are strown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">About the town.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Around me is the sound of steepled bells,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And rich perfumed smells</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hang like a wind-forgotten cloud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And shroud</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Me from close contact with the world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I dwell impearled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You blazon me with jewelled insignia.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A flaming nebula</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rims in my life. And yet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">You set</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The word upon me, unconfessed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To go unguessed.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-petition" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Petition</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I pray to be the tool which to your hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Long use has shaped and moulded till it be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Apt for your need, and, unconsideringly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You take it for its service. I demand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be forgotten in the woven strand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which grows the multi-coloured tapestry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of your bright life, and through its tissues lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hidden, strong, sustaining, grey-toned band.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I wish to dwell around your daylight dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The railing to the stairway of the clouds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To guard your steps securely up, where streams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A faery moonshine washing pale the crowds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of pointed stars. Remember not whereby</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You mount, protected, to the far-flung sky.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-blockhead" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Blockhead</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Before me lies a mass of shapeless days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Unseparated atoms, and I must</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sort them apart and live them. Sifted dust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Covers the formless heap. Reprieves, delays,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There are none, ever. As a monk who prays</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sliding beads asunder, so I thrust</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each tasteless particle aside, and just</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Begin again the task which never stays.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I have known a glory of great suns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When days flashed by, pulsing with joy and fire!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drunk bubbled wine in goblets of desire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And felt the whipped blood laughing as it runs!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spilt is that liquor, my too hasty hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Threw down the cup, and did not understand.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="stupidity" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Stupidity</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Dearest, forgive that with my clumsy touch</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I broke and bruised your rose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I hardly could suppose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It were a thing so fragile that my clutch</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Could kill it, thus.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It stood so proudly up upon its stem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I knew no thought of fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And coming very near</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell, overbalanced, to your garment’s hem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Tearing it down.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now, stooping, I upgather, one by one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The crimson petals, all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Outspread about my fall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They hold their fragrance still, a blood-red cone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of memory.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And with my words I carve a little jar</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To keep their scented dust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which, opening, you must</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breathe to your soul, and, breathing, know me far</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">More grieved than you.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="irony" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Irony</h2>
				<p>
					<span>An arid daylight shines along the beach</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dried to a grey monotony of tone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And stranded jelly-fish melt soft upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun-baked pebbles, far beyond their reach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sparkles a wet, reviving sea. Here bleach</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The skeletons of fishes, every bone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Polished and stark, like traceries of stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The joints and knuckles hardened each to each.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And they are dead while waiting for the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The moon-pursuing sea, to come again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their hearts are blown away on the hot breeze.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Only the shells and stones can wait to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Washed bright. For living things, who suffer pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May not endure till time can bring them ease.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="happiness" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Happiness</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Happiness, to some, elation;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is, to others, mere stagnation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Days of passive somnolence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At its wildest, indolence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hours of empty quietness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No delight, and no distress.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Happiness to me is wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Effervescent, superfine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full of tang and fiery pleasure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far too hot to leave me leisure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For a single thought beyond it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drunk! Forgetful! This the bond: it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Means to give one’s soul to gain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Life’s quintessence. Even pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pricks to livelier living, then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wakes the nerves to laugh again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rapture’s self is three parts sorrow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although we must die to-morrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Losing every thought but this;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Torn, triumphant, drowned in bliss.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Happiness: We rarely feel it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would buy it, beg it, steal it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pay in coins of dripping blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this one transcendent good.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-last-quarter-of-the-moon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Last Quarter of the Moon</h2>
				<p>
					<span>How long shall I tarnish the mirror of life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A spatter of rust on its polished steel!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The seasons reel</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a goaded wheel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Half-numb, half-maddened, my days are strife.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The night is sliding towards the dawn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And upturned hills crouch at autumn’s knees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A torn moon flees</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through the hemlock trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hours have gnawed it to feed their spawn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pursuing and jeering the misshapen thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A rabble of clouds flares out of the east.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like dogs unleashed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">After a beast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They stream on the sky, an outflung string.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A desolate wind, through the unpeopled dark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shakes the bushes and whistles through empty nests,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the fierce unrests</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I keep as guests</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crowd my brain with corpses, pallid and stark.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Leave me in peace, O Spectres, who haunt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My labouring mind, I have fought and failed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I have not quailed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I was all unmailed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And naked I strove, ’tis my only vaunt.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The moon drops into the silver day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As waking out of her swoon she comes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I hear the drums</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of millenniums</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beating the mornings I still must stay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The years I must watch go in and out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While I build with water, and dig in air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the trumpets blare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hollow despair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shuddering trumpets of utter rout.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>An atom tossed in a chaos made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of yeasting worlds, which bubble and foam.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whence have I come?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What would be home?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hear no answer. I am afraid!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I crave to be lost like a wind-blown flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pushed into nothingness by a breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And quench in a wreath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of engulfing death</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This fight for a God, or this devil’s game.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-tale-of-starvation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Tale of Starvation</h2>
				<p>
					<span>There once was a man whom the gods didn’t love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a disagreeable man was he.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He loathed his neighbours, and his neighbours hated him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he cursed eternally.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He damned the sun, and he damned the stars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he blasted the winds in the sky.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sent to Hell every green, growing thing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he raved at the birds as they fly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His oaths were many, and his range was wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He swore in fancy ways;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But his meaning was plain: that no created thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was other than a hurt to his gaze.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He dwelt all alone, underneath a leaning hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And windows toward the hill there were none,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on the other side they were white-washed thick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To keep out every spark of the sun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When he went to market he walked all the way</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Blaspheming at the path he trod.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He cursed at those he bought of, and swore at those he sold to,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By all the names he knew of God.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For his heart was soured in his weary old hide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And his hopes had curdled in his breast.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His friend had been untrue, and his love had thrown him over</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For the chinking money-bags she liked best.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The rats had devoured the contents of his grain-bin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The deer had trampled on his corn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His brook had shrivelled in a summer drought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And his sheep had died unshorn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His hens wouldn’t lay, and his cow broke loose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And his old horse perished of a colic.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the loft his wheat-bags were nibbled into holes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By little, glutton mice on a frolic.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So he slowly lost all he ever had,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the blood in his body dried.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shrunken and mean he still lived on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And cursed that future which had lied.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One day he was digging, a spade or two,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As his aching back could lift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he saw something glisten at the bottom of the trench,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And to get it out he made great shift.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So he dug, and he delved, with care and pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the veins in his forehead stood taut.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the end of an hour, when every bone cracked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He gathered up what he had sought.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A dim old vase of crusted glass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Prismed while it lay buried deep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shifting reds and greens, like a pigeon’s neck,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At the touch of the sun began to leap.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It was dull in the tree-shade, but glowing in the light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Flashing like an opal-stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Carved into a flagon; and the colours glanced and ran,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where at first there had seemed to be none.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It had handles on each side to bear it up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a belly for the gurgling wine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its neck was slender, and its mouth was wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And its lip was curled and fine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The old man saw it in the sun’s bright stare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the colours started up through the crust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he who had cursed at the yellow sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Held the flask to it and wiped away the dust.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And he bore the flask to the brightest spot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where the shadow of the hill fell clear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he turned the flask, and he looked at the flask,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the sun shone without his sneer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then he carried it home, and put it on a shelf,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But it was only grey in the gloom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So he fetched a pail, and a bit of cloth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he went outside with a broom.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And he washed his windows just to let the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lie upon his new-found vase;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when evening came, he moved it down</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And put it on a table near the place</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where a candle fluttered in a draught from the door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The old man forgot to swear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Watching its shadow grown a mammoth size,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dancing in the kitchen there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He forgot to revile the sun next morning</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When he found his vase afire in its light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he carried it out of the house that day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And kept it close beside him until night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And so it happened from day to day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The old man fed his life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the beauty of his vase, on its perfect shape.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And his soul forgot its former strife.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the village-folk came and begged to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The flagon which was dug from the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the old man never thought of an oath, in his joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At showing what he had found.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One day the master of the village school</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Passed him as he stooped at toil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hoeing for a bean-row, and at his side</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was the vase, on the turned-up soil.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“My friend,” said the schoolmaster, pompous and kind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“That’s a valuable thing you have there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But it might get broken out of doors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It should meet with the utmost care.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What are you doing with it out here?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Why, Sir,” said the poor old man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I like to have it about, do you see?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To be with it all I can.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“You will smash it,” said the schoolmaster, sternly right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Mark my words and see!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he walked away, while the old man looked</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At his treasure despondingly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then he smiled to himself, for it was his!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He had toiled for it, and now he cared.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes! loved its shape, and its subtle, swift hues,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which his own hard work had bared.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He would carry it round with him everywhere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As it gave him joy to do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fragile vase should not stand in a bean-row!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who would dare to say so? Who?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then his heart was rested, and his fears gave way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he bent to his hoe again.⁠ ⁠…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A clod rolled down, and his foot slipped back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he lurched with a cry of pain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For the blade of the hoe crashed into glass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the vase fell to iridescent sherds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The old man’s body heaved with slow, dry sobs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He did not curse, he had no words.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He gathered the fragments, one by one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And his fingers were cut and torn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then he made a hole in the very place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whence the beautiful vase had been borne.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He covered the hole, and he patted it down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then he hobbled to his house and shut the door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He tore up his coat and nailed it at the windows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That no beam of light should cross the floor.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He sat down in front of the empty hearth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he neither ate nor drank.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In three days they found him, dead and cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And they said: “What a queer old crank!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-foreigner" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Foreigner</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Have at you, you Devils!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My back’s to this tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you’re nothing so nice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That the hind-side of me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would escape your assault.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Come on now, all three!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Here’s a dandified gentleman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rapier at point,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a wrist which whirls round</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a circular joint.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A spatter of blood, man!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That’s just to anoint</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And make supple your limbs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Tis a pity the silk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of your waistcoat is stained.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why! Your heart’s full of milk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so full, it spills over!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’m not of your ilk.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You said so, and laughed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At my old-fashioned hose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the cut of my hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At the length of my nose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To carve it to pattern</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I think you propose.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your pardon, young Sir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But my nose and my sword</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are proving themselves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In quite perfect accord.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I grieve to have spotted</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your shirt. On my word!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And hullo! You Bully!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That blade’s not a stick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To slash right and left,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my skull is too thick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be cleft with such cuffs</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of a sword. Now a lick</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Down the side of your face.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What a pretty, red line!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tell the taverns that scar</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was an honour. Don’t whine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a stranger has marked you.</span>
					<br/>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The tree’s there, You Swine!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Did you think to get in</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At the back, while your friends</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made a little diversion</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In front? So it ends,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With your sword clattering down</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the ground. ’Tis amends</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I make for your courteous</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Reception of me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A foreigner, landed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From over the sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your welcome was fervent</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I think you’ll agree.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My shoes are not buckled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With gold, nor my hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oiled and scented, my jacket’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not satin, I wear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Corded breeches, wide hats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I make people stare!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So I do, but my heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is the heart of a man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my thoughts cannot twirl</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the limited span</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twixt my head and my heels,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As some other men’s can.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I have business more strange</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than the shape of my boots,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my interests range</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the sky, to the roots</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of this dung-hill you live in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You half-rotted shoots</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of a mouldering tree!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Here’s at you, once more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You Apes! You Jack-fools!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You can show me the door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And jeer at my ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But you’re pinked to the core.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And before I have done,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I will prick my name in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the front of my steel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And your lily-white skin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall be printed with me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For I’ve come here to win!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="absence" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Absence</h2>
				<p>
					<span>My cup is empty to-night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cold and dry are its sides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chilled by the wind from the open window.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Empty and void, it sparkles white in the moonlight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The room is filled with the strange scent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of wistaria blossoms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They sway in the moon’s radiance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tap against the wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the cup of my heart is still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cold, and empty.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When you come, it brims</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red and trembling with blood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heart’s blood for your drinking;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fill your mouth with love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the bitter-sweet taste of a soul.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-gift" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Gift</h2>
				<p>
					<span>See! I give myself to you, Beloved!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My words are little jars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you to take and put upon a shelf.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their shapes are quaint and beautiful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they have many pleasant colours and lustres</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To recommend them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Also the scent from them fills the room</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sweetness of flowers and crushed grasses.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When I shall have given you the last one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You will have the whole of me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I shall be dead.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-bungler" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Bungler</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You glow in my heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the flames of uncounted candles.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when I go to warm my hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My clumsiness overturns the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then I stumble</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the tables and chairs.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fools-money-bags" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Fool’s Money Bags</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Outside the long window,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With his head on the stone sill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dog is lying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gazing at his Beloved.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His eyes are wet and urgent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his body is taut and shaking.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is cold on the terrace;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A pale wind licks along the stone slabs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the dog gazes through the glass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And is content.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Beloved is writing a letter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Occasionally she speaks to the dog,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But she is thinking of her writing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Does she, too, give her devotion to one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not worthy?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="miscast-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Miscast<br/>
				I</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I have whetted my brain until it is like a Damascus blade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So keen that it nicks off the floating fringes of passers-by,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So sharp that the air would turn its edge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were it to be twisted in flight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Licking passions have bitten their arabesques into it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the mark of them lies, in and out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Worm-like,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the beauty of corroded copper patterning white steel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My brain is curved like a scimitar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sighs at its cutting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a sickle mowing grass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But of what use is all this to me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, who am set to crack stones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a country lane!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="miscast-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Miscast<br/>
				II</h2>
				<p>
					<span>My heart is like a cleft pomegranate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bleeding crimson seeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dripping them on the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My heart gapes because it is ripe and over-full,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And its seeds are bursting from it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But how is this other than a torment to me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, who am shut up, with broken crockery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a dark closet!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="anticipation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Anticipation</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I have been temperate always,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I am like to be very drunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With your coming.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There have been times</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I feared to walk down the street</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest I should reel with the wine of you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And jerk against my neighbours</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As they go by.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am parched now, and my tongue is horrible in my mouth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my brain is noisy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the clash and gurgle of filling wine-cups.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="vintage" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Vintage</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I will mix me a drink of stars⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Large stars with polychrome needles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Small stars jetting maroon and crimson,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cool, quiet, green stars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will tear them out of the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And squeeze them over an old silver cup,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I will pour the cold scorn of my Beloved into it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So that my drink shall be bubbled with ice.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It will lap and scratch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I swallow it down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I shall feel it as a serpent of fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coiling and twisting in my belly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His snortings will rise to my head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I shall be hot, and laugh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgetting that I have ever known a woman.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-tree-of-scarlet-berries" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Tree of Scarlet Berries</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The rain gullies the garden paths</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tinkles on the broad sides of grass blades.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A tree, at the end of my arm, is hazy with mist.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even so, I can see that it has red berries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A scarlet fruit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Filmed over with moisture.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seems as though the rain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dripping from it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should be tinged with colour.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I desire the berries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, in the mist, I only scratch my hand on the thorns.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Probably, too, they are bitter.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="obligation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Obligation</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Hold your apron wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I may pour my gifts into it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So that scarcely shall your two arms hinder them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From falling to the ground.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I would pour them upon you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cover you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For greatly do I feel this need</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of giving you something,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even these poor things.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dearest of my Heart!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-taxi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Taxi</h2>
				<p>
					<span>When I go away from you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world beats dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a slackened drum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I call out for you against the jutted stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shout into the ridges of the wind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Streets coming fast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One after the other,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wedge you away from me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the lamps of the city prick my eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So that I can no longer see your face.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why should I leave you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wound myself upon the sharp edges of the night?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-giver-of-stars" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Giver of Stars</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Hold your soul open for my welcoming.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let the quiet of your spirit bathe me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With its clear and rippled coolness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, loose-limbed and weary, I find rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Outstretched upon your peace, as on a bed of ivory.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let the flickering flame of your soul play all about me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That into my limbs may come the keenness of fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The life and joy of tongues of flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, going out from you, tightly strung and in tune,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I may rouse the blear-eyed world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pour into it the beauty which you have begotten.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-temple" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Temple</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Between us leapt a gold and scarlet flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into the hollow of the cupped, arched blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Heaven it rose. Its flickering tongues up-drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And vanished in the sunshine. How it came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We guessed not, nor what thing could be its name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From each to each had sprung those sparks which flew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Together into fire. But we knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The winds would slap and quench it in their game.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And so we graved and fashioned marble blocks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To treasure it, and placed them round about.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pillared porticos we wreathed the whole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And roofed it with bright bronze. Behind carved locks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flowered the tall and sheltered flame. Without,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The baffled winds thrust at a column’s bole.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epitaph-of-a-young-poet-who-died-before-having-achieved-success" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Epitaph of a Young Poet Who Died Before Having Achieved Success</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath this sod lie the remains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of one who died of growing pains.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-answer-to-a-request" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">In Answer to a Request</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You ask me for a sonnet. Ah, my Dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Can clocks tick back to yesterday at noon?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Can cracked and fallen leaves recall last June</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And leap up on the boughs, now stiff and sere?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For your sake, I would go and seek the year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Faded beyond the purple ranks of dune,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Blown sands of drifted hours, which the moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Streaks with a ghostly finger, and her sneer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pulls at my lengthening shadow. Yes, ’tis that!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My shadow stretches forward, and the ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is dark in front because the light’s behind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It is grotesque, with such a funny hat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In watching it and walking I have found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More than enough to occupy my mind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I cannot turn, the light would make me blind.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
